With this update, the Inspiron 8200 is one of the best selling notebooks currently available. This update involves a second Inspiron 8200 notebook purchased in early October. For whatever inexplicable reason, my father wanted to upgrade his notebook (a Inspiron 4100 which is now in my possession) so with the past experience our family has had with Dell computers, it was natural for us to stick with Dell. The Inspiron 8200 was just released and the prices were very reasonable (especially with a mail-in rebate, coupon, free shipping, and free DVD/CD-RW upgrade!). I was looking to upgrade my desktop to a permanent home notebook solution and went with the Toshiba Satellite 5105-S607 instead. So my major points of reference are from the ownership of a Dell Inspiron 4100, Inspiron 8000, Toshiba Satellite 2805, and a Satellite 5105-S607 as well as all the notebooks I troubleshoot for friends and co-workers. This first Inspiron was purchased in March 2002. The second Inspiron 8200 was purchased in early October 2002. Short Take The Inspiron 8200 is a great value overall with most of the features needs to make it a desktop replacement. It features some of the latest technology in computers such as DDR memory with a 400MHz Front Side Bus and the latest in power saving technologies from Intel. Although the Pentium 4 chip pales against the raw power of a similarly powered AMD Athlon XP Mobile chipset, the majority of users are unlikely to notice this. Dell has kept this model fresh by updating the options available on the notebook... improved video cards, improved screens, and the such make large differences in the overall performance of the notebook. With the promotions that Dell often has and the long warranty options for the notebook (although Dell customer service is just average these days), the Inspiron can even be bought at almost budget prices. I will note both Inspiron 8200s in my possession... Pros: 1) Options galore 2) Various Promotions by Dell can make the notebook extremely cheap 3) Excellent screen options... all the way to UXGA Ultrasharp option 4) Powerful graphic card options 5) Dual battery options 6) Long battery life with dual battery options (up to 6 hours depending on use and configuration of notebook) 7) Versatile 2nd drive bay (can accept second battery) 8) Good number of ports included and 2 USB 9) Network and Modem ports built in 10) Long warranty options Cons: 1) Weight is a factor 2) Dell notebook quality has worsened a bit... case feels a bit cheaper from the 2nd Inspiron 8200 from my first one. 3) lack of high speed ports like USB 2.0 (has FireWire/IE1394 port but the mini-connector end) 4) Other companies offer extras like built in memory stick, Secure Digital/MMC card, or SmartMedia reader 5) Pentium 4-M processor overall is weaker/slower than Pentium 3-M and Athlon XP Mobile in many applications. 1.6GHz P4-M is slower than 1.2GHz P3-M except for applications made specifically with the P4 architecture in mind (there isn't alot out there yet). Athlon XP 1600 definitely outperforms the P4-M 1.6GHz. 6) Dell customer service is hit or miss. Overall, the customer service is just average these days. Same old, Same old... First Impressions out of the box I had a basic idea what the notebook would look like... I mean, I just had to look at my Inspiron 8000 and then I knew what the 8200 would look like. So no surprises there... the 8200 looks like every other notebook in the 8000 series lineup. You can barely tell the difference... in that way, the notebook looks a bit bland now. Sure you can customize the handrests and the top part of the notebook with colored plates... but big deals these days. The nice thing about having the similar design is that you can interchange parts between the 8000, 8100, and 8200 notebooks. Batteries, drives, and the such. So if you have a few accessories from an older 8000 or 8100, it is extremely likely to be compatible with the 8200. At least it saves costs in upgrading from an older Inspiron 8x00 series notebook. The beast inside... (Some technical details) However, the similarities between the 8200 and 8100 and 8000 end there since the 8200 innards are an entirely different beast! The 8200 sports the Pentium 4 Mobile processor. This badboy processor starts with numbers of 1.7 GHz now. The RAM is based on PC266 DDR SODIMM RAM boards on a 400MHz FSB so you have much faster memory than the older Inspiron 8000/8100s. Video options include the 64MB GeForce4 440 Go chipsets and the latest Radeon 9000 Mobile chip. There is a newer control chipset (815MP as per Dell website... PCMagazine.com says it's the 845MP chipset) inside the 8200 that helps unlock the true potential of the P4 Mobile SpeedStep (what helps the P4 Mobile conserve battery power)... to even gain a bit of battery life over the 8000 and 8100 notebooks despite a more powerful processor and graphics chip. The purchased configuration First Notebook Pentium 4-M 1.6 GHz processor 128 MB of PC266 DDR SoDIMMs (upgradable to 1 GB) nVidia GeForce4 440 Go 64MB graphics chip 15 inch UltraSharp UXGA monitor (1600x1400 with brighter screen than original UXGA screen) 30 GB 4200rpm Hard Drive DVD/CD-RW combo drive (8x DVD and 8x/4x/24x CD-RW) Integrated 56k modem and 10/100 Ethernet port Windows XP Home and MS Works 1 year Mail-In customer support(the cheapest option!) Cost: $2200 in March 2002 Second notebook Pentium 4-M 1.8GHz processor 384 MB of RAM 40GB 5400rpm Hard Drive (higher rpms the better... 5400 is max for notebooks) ATI Radeon 9000 graphics chip (better than GeForce4 Go 440 and 460 in my opinion) 15 inch UXGA screen (not UltraSharp option) DVD/CD-RW drive (8x DVD 24x/8x/24x CD-RW) 56K modem and 10/100 Ethernet port built in Extra battery and nylon case Win XP home and MS Works 3 yr Mail-In customer support with Complete Care protection Cost: $1952 bought in October 2002 The 8200 Inspiron is a three spindle design notebook. You can have up to three drives on this computer. A hard drive and two optical drives. One optical drive can be swapped with a second battery to extend battery life to about 5 even up to 6 hours. Nice part about this design is that you still have an optical drive installed on the notebook for portable DVD viewing :) Performance What do you expect? The 8200 as a whole blows away any PIII-M notebook out there quite easily. You will approach desktop Pentium 4 performance... but not quite reach it. Adding the GeForce4 440 Go 64MB graphics chip helps a great deal as well. The new Radeon 9000 graphics chip absolutely makes this computer rock. You're not going to worry when you play graphically intensive games and should have few problems with PhotoShop and CAD programs as well. The GeForce4 440 chip seems stable with Windows XP unlike the reports of GeForce2Go and Windows XP having difficulties working together. The ATI has been perfectly stable so far... I would dare say even more stable than the GeForce4 440 Go chip. There is no surprise in the performance increase considering the faster processor, the faster memory, and the faster 400MHz bus on the motherboard (i.e. how fast components of the computer can transmit data to each other). All of these factors have been significantly increased in the 8200 from the 8100, and you'll notice the difference! Note that if you compare a Pentium III-M processor against the Pentium-4 processor, the 1.2GHz P3-M will beat the 1.6GHz and even 1.7GHz P4-M processor. The other enhancements to the 8200 notebook account for the superiority against most other Pentium 3-M notebooks. The GeForce4 440 Go chipset is blazingly fast against desktop standards. I would say that it performed as good as the original desktop GeForce3 card in a desktop computer. Games like Quake and Max Payne ran at extremely high framerates (when connected to a regular computer monitor). Graphics were crisp, clean, and detailed. High resolutions were handled rather easily by the GeForce4 Go chip. It may have beat out my ATI Radeon Mobility 7500 chip on my Inspiron 4100 notebook... but this isn't a fair comparison. The Radeon 9000 chipset seems more on par with the low and medium end desktop GeForce 4 chipsets... talk about power! The latest screen technology (the UltraSharp UXGA TFT screen) gives the same resolution as the older UXGA 15inch screen but the brightness of the screen is extremely noticable. You can see the screen at all types of crazy angles and never have to strain your eyes. Fine details are maintained throughout with excellent colour reproduction and vivid colour displays. This is easily the best notebook screen I've seen to date. I have no complaints about the UltraSharp UXGA screen on the 8200. The regular UXGA screen is no slouch either... it is not as bright and the angle of viewing the screen is considerably smaller (at best 120 degrees from side to side versus 160-180 on the UltraSharp). If you're going to be directly infront of the notebook at all times (and other people aren't looking over your shoulder or from the side) the UXGA screen is just fine. The least expensive screen is the SXGA screen. The difference can be up to $150 from SXGA to Enhanced UXGA! DVD playback was also very good. DVD playback of the first 8200 notebook is worse than my Dell Inspiron 4100 with the ATI Radeon 7500 graphics chip. DVD playback of the Radeon 9000 equiped 8200 is as good or better than my 4100 notebook. Gone are the days of separation of colors (like flesh tones) that I noticed with the GeForce2Go equipped notebooks. Playback is displayed in vivid and accurate color although some scenes seem a bit darker than they should be. No dropped frames... no stutters... no stoppage of playback. The excellent graphics transferred to monitors and TVs unblemished through the monitor port or the S-Video port. The Radeon 9000 equiped notebook was an excellent DVD playback solution. Battery life on the 8200 is decent. The first notebook runs about 2 1/2 hours without difficulty. Installing the second battery gave me 5-5 1/2 hours of uptime. That's not bad at all and the 8200 seemed to squeak out just a little more uptime than the 8000 notebook in the house. CNet reports that the 8200 beats out the 8100 notebook in battery tests as well... I can't verify that though. The increased battery life is likely due to the P4-M processor, the 845MP control chipset, and the enhancements to the GeForce4 Go ability to monitor and limit its own power use. Now believe it or not... my second 8200 system achieved better battery times than the first 8200! I actually got closer to 3 hours on one battery and nearly 6 hour on two! Heck, you're getting a more powerful system on the same battery power running the Inspiron 8000 and 8100. That's pretty good! Other Details The 8200 is a bulky notebook... not surprising considering where the basic design originated from. The notebook has dimensions of 1.75(H) x 13.03(W) x 10.8(D) with a base weight of 7.9lbs (and that assumes both bays are occupied). At least you get lots of ports on this notebook. You get a parallel port, serial port, infrared transmitter and receiver, external monitor connection, S-Video port, microphone jack, headphone/line out jack, line in jack, PS/2 port, 2 USB 1.1 ports, 1 Firewire port, S/PDIF jack, and a connection for the advanced port replicator. You also get 1 Type III PCMCIA slot (or 2 Type II PCMCIA slots). I do wish that the notebook had some USB 2.0 ports and/or Firewire ports. Like all of Dell's notebooks, you have tons of options when you are purchasing your notebook. I'd be careful to know what you can install yourself since Dell charges full retail price on these components. If you can install the item yourself, buy it yourself at a reputable and cheaper store. Memory is a prime example of this... a 128MB upgrade to a total of 256MB of memory will cost you $75! A 266MHz 256MB SoDIMM board in the open market costs about $80! Heck, Dell sells the 256MB SoDIMM board on their own website for $90-100... getting you a total of 384MB of RAM on your computer (you have to put 128MB of memory on the notebook... that's the lowest option). I used to recommend Crucial memory since it is reliable, but it is fairly expensive... shop around first. Dell's notebooks have always had solid keyboards... the 8200 sticks to this tradition. I can type quickly and easily on the 8200 keyboard... there is a good tactile feel and good resistance. Again, like all recent Dell's notebooks, there are two pointing devices. A touchpad and the tiny eraser point in the middle of the keyboard. Both are very responsive and accurate. Sound is still a weak point in the 8200. The Toshiba laptop still mops up the floor in the sound department with their notebooks' subwoofer setup. The 8200 has tinny sound like many laptops do. Get external speakers if you want quality sound or look into the Extigy solution by Creative. The overall quality of the casing feels cheaper than the earlier Inspirons like the 8000 and 4000 series notebooks. The 8200 casing doesn't give you the confidence that it could survive a good blow... my second 8200s actually feels cheaper than the first (Thank goodness I got the CompleteCare warranty!). Get a good case for this thing... I rather not take the risk. Another problem is Dell's declining Customer Service... it can range from good to downright horrible at any given time of the day. However, I doubt that the other major notebook manufacturers are much better than Dell in this department. At least you have the option on the length of the warranty and options. Read my latest notebook reviews (Inspiron 4150 and 2650 reviews for details on customer service issues). You can get a warranty for up to 4 years worth. The CompleteCare option allows you to put more abuse on the notebook with a guarantee of repair for certain types of damage... falls, coffee spills, and the such are now covered with the CompleteCare option. Hitting the computer with a hammer or running it over with a car are still not covered. I feel this notebook is a bit noisier than others. There are multiple fans running to keep the system and components cool. These same fans are loud enough to drown out low sounds from the integrated speakers. Heat production is an issue with this computer, but it doesn't seem to run extremely hot. It was somewhat comfortable on my lap for two hours or so. The smaller Pentium 4 chips don't release the massive amount of heat the P3-Ms did. Final Thoughts The 8200 is a solid and dependable notebook... but it isn't the best value or the best performer. It even doesn't offer the most features possible on a notebook. You kind of get the feeling that the 8200 is 8100 with a few new parts. Regardless, the notebook is worth considering if you want a dependable notebook. I'd recommend the notebook but warn that you can find just as good or better notebooks from other companies as well. We'll see where Dell ends up with the Pentium 4 Mobile processor. There are other options to consider as well. There are mobile Athlon 4 processors as well which deliver good performance for a better price. On top of that, a Pentium III-M notebook will cost somewhat less and offer plenty of power for the average user... if a Pentium 3-M notebook had the same options and motherboard architecture, I would recommend the P3-M notebook over the P4-M notebook! So you have to figure out what you want from your notebook computer. The 8200 is a solid performer but there are plenty of options out there and there are better performing Pentium 4-M notebooks going against Dell's 8200. I also want to note that I also bought a HP ZE1201 notebook for $650 that contained a Mobile Athlon XP 1500 processor (1.3GHz processor) with 512MB PC133 SoDIMM memory, 20GB 4200rpm Hard Drive, integrated graphics card, and SXGA 14 inch screen... the performance of this notebook was excellent and shows the differences in processors and the overall architecture of the notebook. The Mobile Athlon XP is extremely powerful but the motherboard and graphic options available to Pentium 4-M notebooks give certain advantages than even the Mobile Athlon XP can't overcome... yet! Something to note is the upcoming Banias processor in 2003. The Banias is Intel's mobile power saving chipsets I believe based off a radically modified Pentium 4 core. Whether this will affect the P4-M since the Banias is supposedly slated for an early 2003 release. Note that the Banias will be released at slower speeds than the P4-M chips but will use significantly less power... supposedly only a Watt of power by some reports! I'll believe it when I see it! If you've been reading my notebook reviews... I got rid of the KDS Valiant notebook and the Toshiba Satellite S507 for this Radeon 9000 equipped Inspiron 8200 notebook. The Toshiba went to my brother and the KDS to a friend as a present. I currently have 3 notebooks at this time... the HP ZE1201 notebook (because of the price I paid for it... this is my abuse notebook... or it gets taken by girlfriend for her stuff), the Dell Inspiron 4100 notebook (I love this one), and the Inspiron 8200 with Radeon 9000 graphics chip. My parents still have the Inspiron 8200 with GeForce4 440 Go chipset from March 2002. Read my other reviews through the menus on my profile page These include the following notebooks: Dell Inspiron 4100 Dell Inspiron 8100 Dell Inspiron 4000 Dell Inspiron 8000 Toshiba Satellite 5005-S504 Toshiba Satellite 5005-S507 KDS PIII notebook Happy Notebook Shopping!
This being my first laptop, I have no real comparison I can make as far as laptops themselves go, but I will just talk about it as far as computing power. Note: I got this computer through school as it's part of my program, so I can't give a price on it, and it has been slightly configured for what we need so what you normally get from Dell may be slightly different. Out of the box, the laptop came with nearly everything I would need in order to get going right away. A built in battery, a plug-in adapter and Windows XP Home edition already installed. Processor The configuration we got included a Pentium 4 running at 1.6 GHz. This thing seriously blazes along. I've run some pretty graphic intensive games on it, and it hasn't even flinched. At the same time, I'm a programmer and it's calculating speed blows my mind at times. Memory It came with 256Mb of RAM which I have subsequently upgraded to 512Mb. I did notice that the RAM got overworked at 256 with some of my games, but that's about it. There are two DIMM PC2100 slots in the laptop, but the max you can get in there with official DELL memory is 512 as they only sell sticks of 256MB. I haven't had any problems at all since I upgraded. Hard Drive Came with a 40Gb hard drive. I feel like I have more room on this thing than I'll ever need, as I've filled it with everything I have, and I still have only used around 10Gb. Drives This is the beautiful part. Aside from the 1.44" floppy drive on the front, it comes with a combo DVD/CD-RW drive as well. Video Card Another nice thing about the Inspiron 8200, is that mine came with a GeForce4 440 Go card in it. They come in both the 32Mb and 64Mb variety. Sound Card Yeah, well, sound cards on a laptop aren't a huge thing as far as I know, and this one isn't anything great. It's a Cirrus Logic/Crystal CS4205. Never heard of it before. Sounds fine though, even though the speakers on a laptop aren't great to begin with either. Display The display is beautiful. It's 15" which is larger than most laptops I've seen before. When you have the power adapter plugged in to improve the brightness, it's better than most CRT monitors for desktops. The default resolution when it shipped was 1400 x 1050, showing you the kind of power this thing has. Communications 56K modem, 10/100 Ethernet connection, and Wi-Fi wireless support Ports Holy crap, does thing thing have a ton of ports. Here we go: 9-pin serial, 25-hole parallel, 15-hole video connector for external monitor, line in/out sterer connections, headphone port, mic port, PS/2 port for mouse/keyboard, 2 USB ports, an infrared sensor, S-video TV-out to hook up to a TV, RJ-11 Modem port, RJ-45 Network adapter, and IEEE 1394 (Firewire) port. Phew. Battery I've found that the battery tends to last between 2 and 3 hours, depending on whether I'm playing games or programming, with games draining it faster. It takes an hour or so to recharge with the computer on, and I haven't noticed how long it takes with the computer off. Keyboard One of the things I normally hate about laptops are the squished little keyboards. Seeing as how the Inspiron 8200 has a 15" display, it means the bottom half of the laptop is larger as well, giving more room for the keyboard, and it now seems easier to type on than a normal keyboard for me. I still hate not having a normal NumPad, but you make do. Mouse, Trackpad, blah blah blah I hate these things. First thing I did was go out and buy a mouse to use exclusively with the laptop. I absolutely detest touchpads, and I'll never touch this thing. I'm sure it works the same as most. I don't like the little Track Stick thing in the middle of the keyboard much either, although this one is better than most I've seen. It's textured so your finger tends to stick to it instead of constantly sliding off. It's also more accurate than most I've seen. The one thing that really sucks, is that both the Track Stick and Touchpad have their own set of mouse buttons. What's bad about this is the fact that the Touchpad ones are right beside the palm rests, and you have a tendency to push them with your palm when you use the Shift key and move one hand over to the other side of the keyboard. It's annoying. Software Honestly, I was kind of disappointed with the software that came with it, but it may be due to the configuration I get from school. I got the Windows XP Home (Can't even give me Professional), WinDVD, Easy CD Creator, and not a whole lot else other than that. No Office or Works programs, though I've heard that's an option you can add on. It did come with MicroSoft Visual Studio, but that's a programming suite that we got for school. Expansion It comes with 2 PCM expansion slots, which as far as I know, are basically the laptop equivalent of PCI slots. Enough Spec Crap That's the technical jibber-jabber. What do I really think of this laptop? I love it. Plain and simple. It worked perfectly right out of the box, and there weren't a whole lot of modifications I had to make to it. I did order the extra memory and buy the mouse, but that's just personal preference. My favorite parts? The quality of the video card/display, and the ease of the keyboard. The fast processor and combo drive are also nice as well. What I don't like? Not much. Other than the touch pad/ track stick crap, but that's standard on a laptop so there's no real getting around it. It is a little heavier than other laptops I've picked up, but it's not really a big complaint. The only contact I've had with tech support so far was in ordering the new RAM and that was extremely easy. I've heard their tech support is pretty good, and they gave us a pretty exhaustive warranty that covers nearly everything for the next 3 years or so I believe The Dell Inspiron 8200 is a powerful, extremely useful laptop, that gives you nearly everything you could want in a laptop. They have a port for nearly every use you could think of. I have all kinds of things hooked up to mine right now, and I still have lots of options left over to further add to it.I'd recommend this to anyone looking for some real processing power in their laptop, especially for more graphically-intensive applications. It may be a little too much for the casual user though.
As announced recently by Intel, they've just released their Mobile Pentium 4 for those that are really demanding greater power than ever before. But for those who are extra power hungry (not electrically), the Pentium 4-M processor is the right choice though. My Inspiron 8200 When I recently ordered an Inspiron 8200 out of the Dell website, I ordered it through this configuration: Intel Pentium 4-m 1.7GHz 15" UXGA screen 256MB DDR-SDRAM (1 piece) 30GB Hard Drive 8x CD-RW/DVD combo drive (Free Upgrade from DVD ROM) 32MB DDR NVidia 4x AGP 56K v.92 modem & 10/100 NIC Internal Wireless antenna Wi-Fi certified MS Works Suite 2nd Battery 3 year warranty with complete care and telephone support. Free Quicken Suite (Tax Software) Total Price: $2200 Processors and Memory The Inspiron 8200 features an Intel Pentium 4-m processor with speeds of up to 2.2GHz. With those processor speeds, you can easily create and store your imaginations such as digital pictures, digital video, digital audio and many more. But laptops in general shouldn't be used for heavy graphics work, as it may hog battery life and cause the lifespan of the laptop to contract. As far as memory goes, the Inspiron 8200 features many memory options, starting from 256MB DDR SDRAM to 1GB of DDR SDRAM through the available 2 SODIMM slots. But I would hang around for a period of time to upgrade the memory by purchasing crucial SODIMM modules. With the 845MP chipset, it allows the processor to operate at a 400MHz bus speed, capable of running your processor demanding applications. Yet conserving battery power, through the Speed Step technology in the Pentium 4-m processor. How does the new processor fare? Currently the Intel Pentium 4-m is performing much better than at the time of its introduction back in March, 2002. Where processor freezing and slowing down due to memory doesn't really exist. With such better power right now, the right time to buy the Pentium 4-m laptop is basically right now. Storage For mass storage, the Inspiron 8200 features a 30GB to 60GB hard drive for storing your OS, 3rd party software, productivity software and many more, including your digital multimedia files. Plus there is a wide variety of optical storage solutions offered by the Inspiron 8200. With one fixed drive bay for your DVD-ROM for full-length DVD movies or have a CD-RW for backing up your hard drive, creating your own CDs and many more. But with a CD-RW/DVD combo drive, you can even combine the best of both drives into just one bay. This means, with the Inspiron 8200, like the Inspiron 8000 or 8100; it allows you to place another battery into the modular bay for extended DVD movies, without worrying about the battery running out until the next charge. However with Sony and Toshiba beginning to introduce DVD ( and/or -)RW drives into their notebooks, I do really hope that Dell will offer it soon to the potential Inspiron 8200 buyers, but at a price. With the modular bay in front of the laptop, you can place an extra battery, house your floppy drive, place a spare hard drive or even plug in a hollow travel lite module. With all those options, the possibilities are endless. But you may want to watch out for something like a digital media reader for the modular bay such as Smart Media, Compact Flash, Secure Digital, Multimedia Card and many more possibilities. Display The Inspiron 8200 features a 15" TFT screen with 3 choices of resolutions. You have a choice of SXGA , UXGA or Enhanced UXGA (Dell UltraSharp). With the UltraSharp screen, you can view your laptop screen at a wider angle than the basic UXGA screen; it even features a greater contrast ratio for a much bigger difference when you're viewing the screen for prolonged periods. With the SXGA or UXGA coupled with the 32MB GeForce 2, it delivers stunning graphics through a standard monitor and with the DVD playback on the laptop screen, it's superb compared to many of the middling laptops, not completely cutting edge. But for real cutting graphics for the Inspiron 8200, the 64MB GeForce4 440 Go video card combined with the Enhanced UXGA screen, you're putting yourself into the theatre seat and into the arcade without actually being there. But of course, regardless of any screen or video card choice offered, all options are excellent for any user, depending on how demanding they're with the graphics in multimedia. With the S-video output, you can even place your laptop screen on a projector by plugging the projector to the S-video port. Or you could even hook this to the TV for full screen DVD movies as well. Peripheral Connection The Inspiron 8200 features plenty of ports for peripheral connection. It comes with the printer port, video port, serial port, mouse or keyboard port, headphone or speaker jack, microphone jack, audio line in, infrared port for your printer and infrared compliant devices, S-video output, 2 USB ports, S/PDIF port for your digital audio and one iLink or Firewire port for those digital camcorders and high speed devices. With the 2 PC card slots (one Type III PC card only), you can add your wireless network antenna, additional interface ports, digital media readers and many more. For communications, the Inspiron 8200 features a 56K v.92 modem for your faxes and going on the Internet. Along with the integrated Ethernet card, you can easily hook the Inspiron 8200 to a network without worrying about buying a separate adapter for that purpose or even go on high speed Internet service. Plus, with the free short-term Internet service options provided by Dell, you can easily even go online. If you do want to have a superior audio experience, I suggest hooking external speakers for the laptop, as it doesn't feature too much bass for the speakers on the side of each Inspiron 8200 laptop. Battery As far as power goes, with the laptop's battery time of around 2.5 hours with one battery, it isn't the longest battery life available out there, but it's sufficient for most DVD videos in just one battery. Unlike the Inspiron 4100, which you do have to pop out the modular optical drive or floppy drive to achieve a longer battery life, you don't have to with the Inspiron 8200, as the laptop also features a fixed bay along with a modular bay. With a second battery, the laptop can easily double the battery life, making the laptop capable of additional productivity after a full length DVD movie. The battery life seems to be justified to be shorter than the Inspiron 4100 series, is because of the larger screen. Plus with the Speed Step technology, it allows the user to maximize battery life when the laptop isn't operating processor-demanding applications. However due to the overheating of the Intel Pentium 4-m processors, the battery life is significantly cut to 2.5 hours as well as the power robbing processor. Other features The keyboard is full sized and it types very smoothly. With my typing speed of about 65 wpm, I can feel the smoothness all the way through the process. With the pointing device, you have 2 choices with the laptop, which is ideal for different users. With either an eraser head mouse or touch pad, no one needs to really feel confined to just one pointing device in many other laptops. I personally prefer the touch pad and it feels very smooth, like the other Dell laptops that I've used. But from time to time, I do switch to the eraser head though. For software, there isn't much to talk about though. But, the selection included the Microsoft Works Suite or Microsoft Office depending on the user preference. But it really is just productivity software. They do feature an Anti-Virus software, but it only lasts for a short 90 days for a trial. Currently the operating system availability includes the Windows XP Home or Professional. With the quality of support deteriorating on the vendor, it means that Dell may not be worth it for some users at all. But the support is better than most laptop vendors out there and it provides many flexible options for warranty and support. But for laptops, try to buy extra warranty, as laptop repairs are much more expensive than desktops; even if it does mean the upgrade is a whole lot more money. With the laptop weight of well over 8 lbs. (with DVD/CD-RW and Floppy Drive), this laptop is considered heavy and difficult to carry. But it isn't as cumbersome as the Toshiba's 1900 series or the 5000 series laptops though. With the thickness of 1.75", it isn't a thin laptop either, but still better than the Toshiba 5105-S607 (1.8" thick) or the Toshiba 1905-S277 (almost 2.0" thick). Recommendation Since the Pentium 4-m processors have gone through a significant improvement since introduction, I would not find myself too hard to recommend the Dell Inspiron 8200. So this means that if you happen to have an Intel Pentium 3-m or Late Production Intel Pentium 3 (not m) laptops, stay with those laptops and it'll last you at least a couple of good years. This is what I would like to see from Dell for this and the Inspiron 4150: Digital Media Writer/Reader: Type 2 Compact Flash, Memory Stick, Secure Digial & Multimedia Card, Smart Media (They can omit Smart Media, since SD & MMC is gradually taking over Smart Media) DVD( and/or -)RW drive.
I purchased the Dell Inspiron 8200 about 2 months ago to replace my aging Inspiron 4000. The specs. Pentium 4M 1.8 , 30GB Hard drive , ATI Radeon 9000 64MB video card , 15" 1400X1050 screen , 320MB ram , CDRW/DVD combo. All of the standard ports are present , including firewire , 2 USB ports , 2 PC card ports , Infrared port. Those specs certainly make it a powerhouse machine by laptop standards but it was surprisingly cheap. The only options I chose was the ATI Radeon 9000 card over the standard G force 32MB card. Hint... Always pick the best video card option because it is not hard to predict that future softwares will become very graphical in nature to attract new users and a powerhouse video card with lots of video ram will greatly extend the useful life of your laptop when running future applications. Workmanship and built quality. One word describes this , Horrible. Compared to other brands the Inspiron 8200 will look like a plasticy pile of junk. The plastic casing feels like a kids toy with uneven gaps and seams, and many creaking sounds are audible when moving the machine around. I give it the lowest marks possible when it comes to workmanship. That said , the workmanship is no less than any models from the 4xxx , 8xxx series. Hopefully Dell will improved this in their next model lines because with doubt, quality is the major downfall to the Dells. Performance I think this is the thing that is of most interest to new users. A knowledgeable person only needs to look to the specifications to have a good idea of it's performance. Dell loads plenty of unneeded and bloated software , much of it running in the background, so even an initial hands on experience won't show it's true potential. Unfortunately I only have my old Inspiron 4000 to compare so I can only say , the Inspiron 8200 is much, much faster. The graphics capabilities are outstanding for a laptop of this class. This is the probably the perfect machine for gamers. Battery life is about 2 hours during light use but this will drop dramatically when doing intensive tasks. Audio Two reasonably powerful speaker grills protrude on the sides producing a deep and rich sound that is surprisingly good for a laptop. I give the Inspiron 8200 high marks for it’s audio quality and volume. Heat and noise The fan is reasonably quiet at low speeds but cycles on and off every 5 minutes, even when the CPU is idling so this tells you that it is a very hot running machine. It literally does heat up the room judging by the hot air coming from the fan vents. According to Fangui (www.diefer.de ) temperature monitor the 8200 runs on average , 20 degrees hotter than the Inspiron 4000 .The fan on my Inspiron 4000 hardly ever came on. At high speeds the fan is very loud but fortunately it only shifts to high when playing games or other CPU intensive tasks. Ergonomics The keyboard feels cheap just as it was on the Inspiron 4000 but the keys are bigger and more solid in feel which makes for easier and more accurate typing. The key travel seems just about right but the keys feel wobbly and make a cheap sound when typing. This I can forgive considering the price but long term reliability of the keyboard is questionable. The touchpad is lousy. This model uses the ALPS instead of the much superior Synaptics used on other model. Despite lacking in features, the mouse pointer is not accurate and jerky which makes it very difficult to navigate menus. Only consider this model if you intend to always use an external mouse. The screen is bright and satisfying graphically but the text size is too small and I find myself straining to read small text. My eyes are reasonably good so if you have vision problems then it is best to choose a model with a lower resolution. Because of the weight and heat generated this does not make for a good machine to use on your lap. Warranty The old Inspiron 4000 came with a 1 year on-site warranty standard but now Dell only offers a 1 year mail in warranty with on-site service as extra. I would like to recommend the on-site but it is too expensive because Dell forces you to take 3 years. Software Nothing special here. Microsoft works suite, Windows XP home, and other miscellaneous software that is not very useful. Conclusion The main advantage of the Inspiron 8200 is that you get a lot of bang for the buck, along with a good name standing behind the warranty. It’s much cheaper than any comparable model out there. Performance is on par with the most expensive models. The main disadvantage is quality compared to other brands, using Toshiba as an example is like comparing Chevy to BMW . Weight and size is another big disadvantage and is the main reason why I recently returned the Inspiron 8200 and ordered an Inspiron 600m which is a newer model using the new Centrino technology. I will write a review on the 600m when it arrives.
As a previous owner of a Toshiba P4 notebook (the 5105-S607, which I also covered here at Epinions), you will likely see a fair amount of comparison between this Dell 8200 and my previous machine. First of all, my needs. I used to be the kind of person who had a built-to-the-balls desktop machine complete with the fastest video and CPU available, with the highest end monitor I could find. Then I picked up a Toshiba notebook and started doing work while sitting on the bus, laying in bed, out and about, etc. This became a priceless thing for me, since I was no longer limited to any given place to do heavy-duty computing, or even gaming. The newest P4 desktop replacement notebooks with cutting edge 3D video truly eliminate the gap between desktop computing and portability. Ultimately, what I wanted in a notebook was a FAST cpu, and no-excuses gaming while on the road. One of the things that struck me as a "nice to have" for a notebook is the ability to *upgrade your video card*. This is one of the things that's possible with the Dell that (as far as I know) isn't possible with any other notebook. As a matter of fact, you can swap out just about ANY component in the Dell, who even give you the documentation on how to do so. (Dell owners: http://docs.us.dell.com/docs/systems/ins8200/) My ordering experience was as good as can be expected. When ordering your Dell Inspiron, you'll be given a HUGE amount of choices as to what you want in your PC. I opted for the fastest/best I could find, a 2.2ghz Pentium 4-M, the 15" Ultra-sharp UXGA 1600x1200 display, the Radeon Mobility 9000 graphics card (which I had my doubts about), and the 40GB 5400RPM Hard Disk (note: the 60GB is quite a bit slower than the 40GB, despite also being 5400 RPM in rotational speed. Why this is, I don't know. If speed is a factor, get the 40GB.) A few important things to remember about Dell's ordering process: -Most systems that are "custom built" have a lead time of several business days, sometimes up to a couple of weeks. -The "order status" page they offer is usually pretty inaccurate. During the first "production" phase, your parts are actually sitting in a bin somewhere waiting for all your parts to become available. Then, the production of your unit moves quickly to the 'testing' phase, which actually means your machine is in transit from Malaysia to the USA. At this point, you'll have it within a week. Upon receiving the unit, the first thing I did was format and reinstall with my work-licensed copy of Windows XP Professional. Taking a peek around, you'll notice the following niceties: -Both a glidepad and a eraser-head mouse with separate buttons for each. -A well-laid-out keyboard -Several media control buttons -3 informative LED's for Power, HDD activity and Battery charge status -A very nice, crisp display if a little washed out compared to the Toshiba. Now, over the past month or two, I've been doing my best to get to know this machine. I will do my best to summarize the pros and cons. The good: Battery Life: Good LORD this thing lasts forever on batteries. I received a 2nd free Li-ion battery upon ordering. When using both batteries, I've gone an ENTIRE AFTERNOON doing work on site, this is WITH my wireless aircard 555 going. Performance: This machine is no slouch. At 2.2ghz, it's blazingly fast while on AC power. (more on this later) Excellent 3d Graphics: While I was leery about the Mobility Radeon 9000 (thanks to ATI's poor reputation with their drivers), I am happy to say that almost all of the games I've played play flawlessly in full screen mode, including titles like Earth and Beyond, Dark Age of Camelot, Half Life, Medal of Honor, Battlefield 1942, and others. The ONLY game that seems to suffer from some minor graphical glitches is Quake 3 Arena, where occasionally you'll see a "previous frame" show up for a split second. Some games also show some issues with the hardware cursor, but this issue appears to be fixed in newer beta drivers (that have been leaked). Configurability and Expandability: Wow. You can get all sorts of stuff for this machine. You can even swap out video modules when the next latest and greatest comes out. It also includes everything you'd ever really want in a notebook port-wise. Parallel, Serial, VGA, 2 USB, Infrared, 2 Cardbus/PC card slots, Firewire (4 pin), Ethernet, 56k modem, a dedicated CD Rom/DVD Rom/Burner bay, and 2 Battery/Media bays (which I slapped a 2nd 40 gig ATA100 drive into, for a total of 80GB on the road). The fact that you can replace just about ANYTHING in this notebook makes it a system-builder's dream. The OK: The Display: The Ultrasharp UXGA display is bright and viewable at pretty good angles, but it tends to be a little washed out. Also, as much as they tout the viewing angle thing, it's not as viewable as the Toshiba display on my 5105-S607, and the color certainly isn't as vibrant. Don't go for the standard UXGA though, thinking it won't be much different. The standard UXGA display is pretty poor on my friend's Inspiron 8000. Weight: Since this is a DESKTOP REPLACEMENT, it's not a light machine. If you're a smaller person, you might have a sore shoulder after toting this thing around. If you're a big guy like me, it won't be a problem. Support: Dell used to be the BEST in this area, but they've slipped as of late. However, their online forums (http://delltalk.us.dell.com) are regularly visited by online support reps. While they aren't the most knowledgable, they tend to dig a little deeper than the usual scripted phone guy. Also, drivers and the like seem to be promptly updated, and are all available on their website with the exception of the Full version of WinDVD. However, this is included with your notebook on CD along with all your other drivers and OS files. No USB 2.0: While the Compaq Presario 2800T gives you USB2, this notebook does not. However, I can live without that since Firewire IS included. The Bad: Sound: The speakers are awful. Don't let anyone tell you "they're not so bad". They truly stink. The Toshiba 5105 had VERY good sound for a portable machine. It's something I miss greatly. The Downright Ugly: CPU speed on batteries: The BIGGEST definite problem involving the actual SPEED of this machine on Batteries. The bios is a bit unclear in how you configure your machine to be at maximum CPU speed while on batteries. With Speedstep, what's SUPPOSED to happen is this; The speed of your CPU should be in a slower state under lower CPU loads, and should INCREASE when something begins to utilize more processor resources. Currently, there's a BIG FAT BUG with this on the 8200's. While plugged into an A/C outlet, all is well. However, once you're on the road and on batteries, Speedstep begins to function erratically. Sometimes, you'll go for a good clip at 2.2ghz when playing a 3D game. But then all of a sudden, your framerate will go straight into the toilet, and will stay there. The big problem here is that there is nothing you can do about it. Dell *IS* looking into it, but they've been strangely quiet about this blatant problem since we've reported it. To view details about this issue, visit the following URL: http://forums.us.dell.com/supportforums/board/message?board.id=insp_power&message.id;=14331 Note: At this point there is NO WAY around this issue. While Dell says in their own documentation that 2.0ghz should be possible on battery power, it clearly does not hold true. This is a very serious bug, and if you plan on doing any high-powered computing while on the road, you may not be able to because of this bug. Dell seriously needs to address this, and quite honestly if I would have known about it beforehand, I would have delayed my order until they had time to fix it. All that being said, the machine performs fine for basic stuff. In fact, I only really notice this issue when i'm playing 3d games. I strongly suspect that the power draw of the 3d card and the processor may be too much for straight battery power. I hope this isn't the case. So, the bottom line.... This is an excellent notebook if you require a powerful desktop-like system, and the ability to travel. It isn't thin, it isn't light, in fact, it's not even pretty... but If it's a powerful desktop replacement you're after, look no further. What could be improved? 1. Get the processor speed up to 2.2ghz on battery. (3/4 star) 2. For ALL that's HOLY, put some DECENT SPEAKERS on this thing! (1/4 star, there's always headphones).
I have had my Inspiron 8200 for a couple of weeks, and now that I have an impression of the machine, I feel ready to review it. First off, I'll give my configuration, so you know what I'm talking about: P4m-1.6GHz, 128mb ram(upgraded to 384mb through crucial), 40 gig 5400rpm hard drive, 10/100 lan, 56k modem, wireless lan built-in, 8x DVD-ROM drive, 32mb GeForce4 440 Go and running Windows XP Professional. I have a friend that owns an Inspiron 8100, so I somewhat knew what to expect in looks. I really like this design. One point about the case, however. It seems to like keeping my fingerprints around after I've touched it, but it only seemed to happen on the outside of the case. I didn't notice this anywhere else. I liked the fact that the screen didn't overlap the edges of the rest of the computer, unlike my Inspiron 5000. But I was unprepared for how good the screen would look when I powered up. But before I powered up, I had to put in the extra memory I ordered from crucial. I did this because the memory was cheaper through crucial than getting it built-in. Installing the memory was as easy as it was with my 5000. One screw out, and the door to the memory bay popped off. No problems getting the dimm to fit. On first boot, it immediately detected the memory and went into a program that told you a little about the machine. I pretty much ignored it(I am a computer professional) but thought it would be good for a more novice computer person than I. Configuring Windows XP Pro was easy and I was in in minutes. I was immediately impressed by the speed that this computer had, and when I installed a game, was blown away by what the GeForce4 Go could do. It ran Star Trek Voyager: Elite Force, without so much as a hiccup. Now, I haven't had any problems with the computer thus far, other than getting it to work with my wireless lan, but this was a problem with my access point, rather than the laptop. Once I got that configured and out of the way, I was browsing the web wirelessly, and at a good speed, about the same as my wired lan(no, I didn't run benchmarks to prove that ;)). For heat dissipation, the system has 2 fans in the back that come on as needed to cool off the system. As yet, I have to be bothered by their noise, or, lack of extreme noise. I was prepared to deal with a loud fan with this machine, but I was surprised at how quiet the fans are! I have always liked the keyboards that Dell has equipped its laptops with, and this computer is no exception. I am typing the review on my laptop and the key travel and size are very adequate. The function keys are smaller than the rest of the keyboard, but I use them sparingly, so I don't have any problems with it. The speakers are better than I expected, as well. They do sound a bit tinny, but they have a decent range of sound and the volume is adequate for my uses. The quick keys above the keyboard also are a bonus, but I wish there was a hardware way to switch between application mode and cd/dvd player mode. These keys have 2 functions, but they are controlled by a software application that runs in the system tray on the computer. DVD playback looks excellent, too. I did notice, however, some artifacting in dark scenes, but that was because I took a small size clip and stretched it to full screen. Finally, (thought that would never come, eh?) I liked the fact that this computer came with both a touchpad and a pointing stick, along with two sets of mouse buttons. I personally prefer the touchpad, but I often find myself changing between the two. Also, one or the other can be disabled, so, if you would rather only use the touchpad, you can turn off the pointing stick, and vice versa. Now, one thing happened when I ordered this. I happen to get a discount through my company, and was told that there was a rebate if I went with the 4 year warranty. That turned out to not be the case, as the rebate was for a desktop system. After a few calls, they credit my order for the amount of the rebate. I wish it was easier to get a hold of the person that took your order, however, it wasn't enough to detract from the experience. I haven't had a need to call tech support yet(knock on wood), so I can't comment on how good/bad they are now. On the weight side, it is a good 8 lbs. and I would expect that for what the laptop has. If you're a road warrior, however, you might want a smaller laptop, as this would strain your shoulder. I have a backpack laptop case, and this helps me carry it around, though. On a side note, I did like the fact you could change the keyboard palmrests. I got the American Flag inserts, and I just have to say it's hard to get the standard silver rests out. Overall, I would recommend this laptop, as it has fulfilled my expectations and hope for it to continue doing so.
JANUARY 2004 UPDATE Since buying this computer in the Fall of 2002, I have used this computer as my main computer for my home business 5 days a week, 8 hours a day -- all without a single incident. I love my Dell computer and when the time comes to replace it, I will ONLY consider replacing it with another Dell laptop. == A COMPLETE REVIEW == Recently I needed to purchase a laptop for my home business use. I strongly considered the IBM ThinkPad T-Series, but the Dell Inspiron 8200 won out in the end for various reasons. Everything else being relatively equal, I placed my order with Dell namely because at the time they offered a better graphics card: the NVIDIA GeForce4 440 Go with 64 MB of DDR RAM (IBM offered a 32mb ATI card). Gaming is also important to me as well. -- DEALING WITH DELL -- Before I ordered I placed a phone call to Dell to get some questions answered. I must have called the wrong department listed in their catalog because I got a lady who basically said, "I’m sorry, I’m new and have no clue what you’re talking about. Let me transfer you." I was then transferred and curtly informed by a young lad that I had the wrong department. Being transferred again I reached someone in tech support who knew the marketing lingo, but none of true specs. Then he had the audacity to ask if I wanted to place an order with him. I said not at this time and would most likely do it via the web when I was ready. He then went off on me stating that I had just wasted his time and that he wouldn't get a commission on my sale. I apologized that Dell had set up their payment structure that way and that he had to take it out on me, but I restated that I was the customer and could choose when, where and how I was going to purchase my computer. Thankfully this adventure with Dell had a happy ending. Her name is Shannah at ext 40216 (800-624-9896). I had another question (was all the software included on CD’s or just preloaded – all CD’s are included) and she answered them all for me. She also asked if I wanted to place an order, and I said not yet, but give me your number. The next day I was and decided to place the order through Shannah instead of through the web. For two reasons, order processing was 24 hours faster through a sales representative than was ordering via the web. Plus, the web only specials were available through her as well (but check on this before you order – I ordered on the last day of the special). -- INITIAL REACTION -- When I first opened my box shipped via UPS (arrived days before I expected it) and pulled the laptop out I said "wow, this sucker is big and heavy". If I had to commute by train, bus or airplane often, I may consider a lighter laptop. While only 8 pounds, it adds up in a typical laptop bag full of papers and other work related stuff. -- CASE -- The case design is stylized with various curves, indents and emblems. Others complain about the dated look, but it has a contemporary look compared to a plain ole black box. Not as cool looking as an Apple notebook, but better than some. - Palm Rests The one thing I really don’t like are their so called "palm rests". Offered in various colors to personalize your laptop, they are nothing more than colorized plastic snap ins. The least they could do is add some padding to really make them a rest. I assumed black palm rests where the default color, but mine came with silver palms rests. I can’t stand the look. But if you’re into that kind of thing, there are 8 different styles you can choose from (for an extra cost). - Screen latch I have found the latch on top of the screen to be cumbersome to use. It has a very cheap feel and is difficult to open. Even with one latch, it still takes me two hands to open it. -- Security Cable Slot I just purchased a Kessington Security Cable on eBay for when I'm at a client site and need to lock it down from walk-aways. I know these cables can be easily cut, and if someone is determined to steal a laptop they will. However, it's like locking your car doors - hopefully the thief will look for an easier target first. Anyway, the Dell comes with two slots to secure the cable, located on the right and left. The right slot would be the logical choice because it doesn't block other plugs, but when I placed the cable in the slot and gave it a slight tug, the case bent out. I played with it a bit more and came to the conclusion if given a stronger tug I could break the plastic edge, thus freeing the laptop. While I'd prefer to keep my laptop case in one piece, I did not try it. The left slot received the same test and held much better, however the location isn't as ideal as the right as it blocks an input plug (has a TV icon next to it) and is also very close to the CD-RW/DVD player and could be in the way when ejecting. Also in the way of the phone cord or ethernet cable on this side as well. Would I trust the Dell case to hold up to someone really determined to take my desktop, I give a worried no. If security is a major issue for you, look at the IBM ThinkPad which has much stronger slots that feel robust and have no give. -- SCREEN -- My model came with a UMAX screen, but I upgraded for $50 to their Ultra-Sharp screen. There is no difference between the Ultra-Sharp and the UMAX except the elimination of the laptop sweet spot. What do I mean? Most LCD screens look best when viewed straight on, but the Ultra Sharp gives you 170 degrees of horizontal viewing, added brightness and increased contrast for these viewing angles. A person sitting next to you can now view what’s on the screen. Not good if you use your laptop on the train or airplane and want some privacy, but when surrounded by people you want to see what’s on your screen – this does the job very well. The native resolution is 1600x1200, and on a 15" screen, everything is hyper small. I’m used to running this resolution on a 19" or 21" monitor, and to require this on a 15" screen is basically insane. It took me a couple days to get used to the small resolution and now I have no problem adapting to it. However, those with poor eyesight might have some trouble reading the small text. One advantage to the small resolution is the increased screen real estate now available. For example, I can have a web browser open at 1024x768, and still have room on the screen to dock instant messenger or MP3 players without obstructing the view. Also, if you run programs that have a lot of floating toolbars (Dreamweaver, Flash, Illustrator, Photoshop, etc) you have places to put them out of the way. -- KEYBOARD -- Full size, very comfortable and the keys are where you expect them to be. There are separate volume buttons, and programmable buttons. My backspace button has a slight squeak to it. One thing I miss dearly from the IBM ThinkPad is their integrated keyboard light. A small thing, but something I used rather regularly. -- POINTING DEVICES -- The Dell comes with not one, but two pointing devices: a pointer pad and an eraser head stick. Why they provided both I don’t know, but it’s the best of both worlds. I became proficient at using the eraser stick on the IBM ThinkPad and use it extensively on the Dell, while others will swear by the touch pad. Simply a matter of preference and Dell provided that for you. However, if you use the eraser stick, the left/right mouse buttons are curved into the design of the case and took some getting used to using. They are indented more than one would expect. However, the buttons for the pad are extremely easy to use. Perhaps I haven’t found the correct setting yet, but I don’t believe I can set the speeds for each pointer separately. The eraser stick speed is just right to move around a screen of this size, but I spend forever pushing the pointer around with the touch pad. One thing I like is I can plug a mouse in while the computer is already on and I don’t have to reboot. -- WinXP -- This has nothing to do with the review of the Dell, but since it comes preloaded I just wanted to say that Microsoft finally got it right. Having been on Win 3.1, Win 95, Win2000 and now WinXP, this is the operating system that Microsoft should have started with. A rock solid battleship – I haven’t crashed yet. And the wizards actually work and do what you want them to. -- SOFTWARE -- Dell provides the CD’s for all the software preloaded on the machine. Dell preloads some trialware programs as well. 6 months of free AOL or MSN are available as well. -- HARDWARE -- Hard drive is quiet. My floppy drive is rather noisy, but it could simply be the diskette I’m using. The 56K modem logs into MSN at around 46kbps. It's worth mentioning that the CD player is relatively quiet. However, the clearance does not allow one to play CD's that have a label attached to them (i.e. a label you put on your own personal CD-R). The label makes the CD drag and not spin at the correct speeds. Once the label is removed the CD works fine (be very careful when removing an adhesive label). No problem playing CD's you would buy in the store. The Inspiron 8200 does not support the USB 2.0 standard yet. -- GRAPHICS -- The graphics are smooth and fast. Then again, I was used to a 4mb card on my desktop, so I’m easily impressed. One thing to be aware of: if you play older games, they don’t support resolutions beyond 1024x768. This results in the game being stretched to 1600x1200 (the setting of the screen) – which creates a slight out-of-focus view. Why not just set the screen resolution to 1024 instead of 1600? Well, laptops use LCD screens and the do not have the same characteristics as do computer monitors. On a computer monitor, the image is set to draw at a different frequency and can show you 640x480, 800x600 or 1024x768, etc. But an LCD screen doesn’t create the image the same way, instead it activates the crystals in the screen which are set at an exact resolution – in this case 1600x1200. -- POWER SUPPLY/AC ADAPTER -- The AC adapter gets really, really HOT! Reading the Dell manual, one learns that this is "normal". Well, it may be "normal" for Dell, but the ThinkPads had much cooler adapters. However, the current power supply shipped with this model has a very serious flaw, which has been discussed at length on Dell's support pages. Namely, when you plug the audio output from the laptop into a high-end stereo system/amplifier you start to hear things: static, rumblings, electronic noise. However, when you run on battery only, it all goes away. Strange. Thankfully, the easy solution is to buy a 3-prong to 2-prong plug converter, which eliminates the ground wire. It is good to note that even when using the original 3-prong plug, you can't hear these sounds on the laptop speakers or even headphones. It's only when listening on a high-end stereo system that is more sensitive.
After looking through many reviews here prior to and after I purchased my Inspiron 8200 (I8200), I felt compelled to write a review about my take on the highest-end Dell notebook available. Firstly, it is touted as a desktop replacement. You have to understand the reason for such a statement. The I8200 has the capacity to perform as well as a desktop system. With a P4M-processor, a GeForce4 GO video adapter and a good system architecture, it definitely lives up to its claim. However, you have to be aware that desktop replacements are not generally portable (not at this price) and are pretty heavy. Dell has opted for a open architecture to its 8000 series notebooks and this can be seen from the easily upgradeable options. From RAM to processor to even video cards, upgrades on this notebook is very much as easy to perform as it is on a desktop. I have compared my I8200 to a couple of my friends notebooks by various vendors and have found that my UXGA display is much better in terms of sharpness and clarity. Dell has also mentioned the specification for the UXGA but you really have to see it to believe it. I cannot determine how good the other displays are other than the UXGA simply because I have not seen them live. A couple of gripes I have with Dell and the I8200 firstly is the sales service. They seem to assume everyone pays by credit card and fail to divulge information on payments made otherwise. I bought mine via a wire transfer and found out very much later that there was to be a ten-day hold on the wire before they could proceed with processing my order. It was not fun finding out the way I did. As I did mention previously, you should expect the system to be big and heavy. It would have been great if it was sleek, small and light but that is just a pipe dream. Some other notebooks at around this price range come with a sub-woofer attached to the bottom. Definitely a nice feature that would have made the I8200 all the better. Finally, it has to be said that this is by far the most I have ever paid for a piece of computer equipment. If only the price tag could be reduced a little, but that is just me being picky. If the I8200 is everything that you have been dreaming of, there are a few things I would like to share with the prospective buyer. Two most important features that you should go for is the UXGA display and the GeForce4 GO video adapter. You have to bear in mind that the UXGA runs at a native 1600X1200 resolution and you will need a very good graphic card to keep up with that kind of demand. The display quality and video adapter are closely related. They also are the hardest parts to replace/upgrade (particularly the display).
My friend’s son, Michael, recently bought a Dell Inspiron 8200 for college. He had been researching and trying to decide between a Dell and Sony Vaio for a long time and finally settled on the Dell because of its well known reliability and its customer service. To date, these Dell traits have yet to distinguish themselves. The computer has been working well but is not flying ahead of Michael’s friend (my son) and his Sony Vaio. At the beginning of his computer odyssey, Michael spent much time in consultation with me and my son as to the pros and cons of both the Vaio and the Inspiron. Most of the computers in both lines seemed to share most of the same characteristics and have a similar price. What the final decision boiled down to was: Is the Sony’s superior appearance paramount to the reliability of the Dell? The decision was that service, while away at school, was more important than a good looking but not working computer. Now that Michael has had the computer for over a month, he has been reevaluating his decision to buy the Dell. Michael was trying to choose between the Dell Inspiron 8200 and the Sony NV-170. Both of the machines had specs similar to these: ~1.6GHZ 256MB RAM 30GB hard drive 32MB video card UXGA for the Dell and SXGA for the Sony CDRW/DVD combo drive 3 year warranty for the dell, 1 for Sony Network card 56Kb modem One of the features of the Sony, which was definitely not included in the Dell, was the media that could be exchanged in the modular bay. The Dell can only accept a battery while the Sony can replace the disk drive with either a subwoofer or a number pad. This feature alone made the Vaio a tantalizing purchase. In the end, as I said, Michael went with Dell. Right out of the box he was not as impressed with the computer as he would have liked to have been. He expected to have a super fast computer since it had a 1.6GHz processor but was dismayed to find that it was not loading applications at the expected double speed of my son’s computer. My son has a Vaio FX which has the same 256MB of RAM but is one year older and has a now paltry 800MHz. When the play games together over the network the extra speed of the Dell shows itself, but not to the desired degree. The video card of the Dell has been another source of problems. There is one game he has been pining to play on his computer: Medal of Honor Allied Assault. It is a graphics intense game. He was hoping that game would look as good as it was supposed to on his UXGA screen and his 32MB video card. Unfortunately, he could barely play for five minutes before the screen started to have lines. Eventually the entire screen would be covered and the game would be unplayable. This was very discouraging as he had seen the game on my son’s computer and it worked well and looked good there. He was hoping that with the extra money he had paid for his screen to be upgraded to UXGA it would look better than my sons computer, but not only were colors missing, but the game could not be sustained even its poor graphics condition. This prompted a call to Dell customer service and brings us to another problem with the Dell. I handled the customer service call myself as I was the one with the most experience present at the time. My call was answered by what seemed to be a representative with no computer experience at all. He only read to me from the cards he had in front of him, and had no experience diagnosing this type of problem himself. He asked questions about unrelated topics and then attempted to blame the problems on these unassociated issues. After over two hours on the phone with Dell during which he had me download and install the same program numerous times, we fixed sort of fixed the problem. I say sort of because the line problem was marginally cured, but his &#147fix" now gave us the added problem that part of the screen would move and part was stuck where it was. At that point he declared the problem was with the game and that there was nothing that could be done. Despite these problems with the computer, it does have some great features. The spacious 30GB hard drive will be more than enough to hold anything Michael will ever put on there. The networking on the computer has been very easy thanks in part to the smart functionality of XP. The CDRW/DVD drive has also performed as well as was expected and has had no problems. One great feature of this notebook that the Sony does not have as far as I know, is its external monitor capability. The Inspiron has the ability to support two monitors at the same time. These can be either side by side or they can show the same image. The Sony can only show an image on one monitor. If a game is displayed on an external monitor or TV for spectator viewing, then the notebook screen is turned off. The Dell also seems to have a problem with its heat generation and dispersion. The Inspiron appears to have multiple fans and the run simultaneously to create a lot of noise, yet the Inspiron cannot sit on my lap. It burns after only a few minutes. The Vaio is much quieter and its fans disperse the heat allowing it to stay comfortably on my lap for hours at a time. The sound on the Dell is better by far the sound on the Vaio, yet neither is really any good for listening. Both are tinny and sounds can be cloaked by the sound of the fans on the Dell. Both computers, and probably most other notebook on the market require external speakers/headphones to sound good. The only other negative feature of this computer when compared with the Vaio is the weight. The Dell is a few pounds heftier than the Sony. Both are easy enough to carry around the house or dorm, but you would not want to have to carry the Inspiron around with you all day. The most appreciated feature of Inspiron though, and the one that made the final decision in its purchase, is its service centers. There is an authorized repair center on the campus of the school Michael is attending just as there is on many college campuses. If he does have a problem with his computer, he has only to walk down the road a short ways to have it fixed. Although my son does not have an authorized Sony repair center on his campus, and there is not one close by, he has yet to experience any problems in the year he has had his computer. He has been lucky in his decision to get a Sony. He got the stylish computer with the possible problems, but has yet to have any problem he cannot fix himself. Most computers work well and the Dell Inspiron 8200 works just as well as any other and performs just as well if not better than any other. But in the quest for a computer, a lot can depend on your level of computer knowledge. If you require an easy to use and generally problem free computer, with the security of nearby repair centers, then the Dell is right for you. If you can handle most of the problems that may arise from your computer, then you may consider getting another computer.
See my previous review (here in the 8200 reviews written under my original log-in "NewsyBC")... I ordered an 8200 in June and received it within 10 days. I tried to place the order online but in the process I contacted the sales dept to ensure I'd qualify for the current E special as it was for business clients only. This time I was put onto a calm "no problem" person who listened and assured me I qualified. She even keyed in the order for me and allowed for free shipping just as if I'd placed the order online. My notebook: P4M 1.6GHz cpu, 256M RAM, SVGA+ 15" screen, 64M Nvidia GeForce4 GO video card (which is really an updated GeForce2 as it is based on the NV17 chipset), 30M HD, DVD. I have to say that I'm very pleased with the graphics performance. I game online a fair bit and this machine sustains max framerates at 1024x768 mode in my fave FPS's (CS & DoD). The only downside is that the 4200rpm HD is a choke point and for gaming under WinXP you should really have 512M of RAM or more in order to counter the HD cache read issues. Now that I've been typing on it for a 3 weeks or so, I find the keyboard to have just the kind of feel that I like. I've since gone back to the retail stores and checked out the keyboards on several other brands and I think Dell has the right touch. Solid with a definite event horizon on the push. Not mushy. I tried an external keyboard with it and it seemed that not all the keys worked in certain hotkey combinations. As I was tweaking the video at the time and trying to configure an external monitor, my problems may have been more related to software not having an effect on the external monitor rather than this being a keyboard problem. More to follow. I used the touchpad for a day and then added a MS Intellimouse Explorer to the system. The MS mouse software does not have the features of the the original Apoint touchpad software which is a shame. If I knew I'd be using the touchpad only for a couple of hours, I'd simply disable the MS driver via "run" + "msconfig" + "startup" and enable the Apoint driver. Btw... I had to disable it manually after installing the MS Mouse. One of the nice features of the Apoint software was the ability to designate the upper and right sides of the pad to perform a specific task such as the browser "Back" & "Forward" buttons, and to emulate the scroll wheel function of an external mouse. I'm a little disappointed in the LCD screen. As compared to UGA+ screen I saw at a trade show, there is no comparison. Unfortunately I did not have the budget to purchase that option and thought that I wouldn't miss it too bad as I could use the 19" external monitor I have here. Don't get me wrong as I'm not saying there is much wrong with the SVGA+ screen because there isn't. If you are planning to use the system for spreadsheets, contact management, word processing, or email, you will enjoy the SVGA+ screen. It is sharp and readable at its' native resolution of 1400x1050 for these tasks. However, it is not well suited for image editing as the gamma shifts from top to bottom of the image when you are seated in your normal viewing position. You can work around it by bobbing and ducking your head. Images look nice and sharp on it but truly, there is no comparison to the UGA+. Speaking of image editing, it was a real pleasure to see images that on my old 256M RAM 450Ghz cpu took 21 seconds to decode, now are taking only 6 seconds. For gaming, no problem. I run at 1024x768 so there is some degradation from native resolution but the scenery still looks good. There is some edge bleeding when you move fast as the LCD phosphors recover but it does not disturb or interfere with my gameplay. Again, the UGA+ screen would not exhibit the bleeding from what I've read. Aside from budget, I did not order the UGA+ screen as I anticipated being able to easily connect and configure my external 19" monitor. Well, this has been another area I'm unhappy about but it is really a Nvidia driver issue I think. I was hoping I'd be able to "profile" the external monitor so that the colours would be accurate while editing images. I have yet to get this one figured out and as I only spent an evening trying to resolve it I don't know that it would be fair to say this is a shortfall. I have started using an accessory program (Powerstrip) to control the LCD colours as Nvidia driver did not offer a way to set the "temperature" of the LCD. My external monitor sets this thru controls on its' front panel but I have yet to find something similar internal to the notebook. Powerstrip is a quick and easy way to set this. This also highlighted a weakness in the manual that shipped with the notebook and also Dell's online tech support. It was not an intuitive process to find the menu link in the Nvidia drivers that allowed for changing the base colour, contrast, brightness, and gamma of the video. I've been updating video drivers for a few years now and this is the best hidden I've ever seen this function. For the record, with the 28.35 drivers it is accessed via a "Device Settings" button at the bottom right corner of the "NView" tab page. Normally these controls would have a tab of their own, and in fact, if you make your external monitor the "primary" (instead of the digital LCD) this tab magically appears. I've read some comments that the fan noise of this unit is intrusive but I find otherwise. It is quiet enough and as compared to the fan noise on my overclocked desktop system it is silent. Consider that the fan does not run continuously even when gaming. The external speakers are a little weak and tinny but I don't miss them as I use earbud headphones quite a bit. Ran the battery down a couple of times and both times it ran around 2 hours and 35 minutes. This was while displaying a slideshow. I never ordered a CD burner as I plan to get an external USB2 unit when the prices come down and use a PCcard adapter to hook to it. That way I can also use it for my desktop system. I'll also likely buy a USB2 external 40M HD to backup the internal drive to. For now I transfer files across the network and use the old slow 6x burner to save images and other data. What would I do different next time?? Get 512M RAM minimum to deal with WinXP's bloat and cache issues. Get the UGA+ screen if I had the $$$$.
My new laptop came with a P4 2.0 GHz processor, 1 GB of RAM, and a 5400-RPM 40-gig hard drive. The operating system is Windows XP Professional. Needless to say, it was fast out of the box, and it got even faster when I turned off some unnecessary things like the XP system-restore function. The screen is a 15" 1600 X 1200 UltraSharp (Dell trademark, I think) UXGA screen. The screen is really amazing, easily worth the small amount of extra money. I was torn when I bought this laptop, thinking that for once I would stop forcing myself to squint in an effort to pack as much text as possible onto the screen at once (I'm a computer programmer); I'd choose something like 1280 X 1024 resolution and save both my eyesight and pocketbook the strain. AM I GLAD I DIDN'T. Even with fairly small fonts, something about this screen makes it possible to read text from ten feet away or more with normal eyesight. Colors are bright and true, also. However, I suspect that the display is responsible for the poor battery life of this machine. I bought a combined DVD-CDRW drive specifically so that I would never have to swap out a battery for a secondary optical drive, and I was eagerly anticipating 10-hour run times with both batteries in. Under all sorts of different processing conditions, the batteries last just a tad over five hours. Good enough, but still disappointing. Someone who needs very long battery life would probably not be picking such a large, heavy laptop in the first place, of course... For the first time, the included Roxio Easy CD Creator isn't full-featured-- you're encouraged to upgrade to the super-duper version for extra money. It comes with the ability to make data CDs, but not music CDs. This is somewhat annoying after spending over $3,200 . MusicMatch Jukebox (normal version, not Plus) comes with the machine as well, and for the first time it never skips on playback, which is great. MusicMatch has for a long time been the best tool for creating MP3s on PCs, but is notorious for having playback problems on all sorts of machines and OSes. Now I don't have to switch over to WinAmp or something else to listen to my music. My advice is to go for the "performance" 40-gig hard drive, not the 60-gig drive, because the spindle speed is much faster. A friend has the 60-gig version, which seems to give worse performance. A couple of laptops I bought from Dell in the past had problems. One had a backlight that kept going south after about two months of use, even when replaced, and started falling apart at the screen hinge. The other developed a cracked motherboard during normal use, which had to be replaced. Only time will tell with the new one. Instead of basic black (which I thought I was getting), my laptop came with annoying silver color inserts. I guess Dell decided to make people pay for the basics now, the way they now charge you up front for a shortened phone-wait time. This machine is godawful heavy with both batteries in. I'm a big strong guy, and I sometimes catch myself switching hands carrying it out to the parking lot in its bag. On the plus side, it doesn't get hot enough to burn your legs, the way my P3-based Inspiron 8100 did. Batteries and drives from many previous models of Dell laptops can be used with the 8200, which came for the first time with this information. Slight degradation in performance will apparently be noticed if you use anything but the battery type that ships with the laptop, but I'm not going to even try. All in all, I like this machine, and I'm glad to have it (at least until it starts having problems). Dell consistently puts the latest technology in their Inspiron laptops at attractive prices; the only drawbacks are support and portability. And you'll pay extra for good support-- 400 dollars or thereabouts for 3-year at-home service, unless it's on sale. Dell once more screwed up on the shipping, as they've done with the other four machines I bought from them. I bought next-day shipping, and soon found (as ever in the past) that their website does NOT display a true status of one's order. The machine blew through all the build steps in a day, but then lingered in the "boxing" phase (yes, where all they have to do is put it into a box) for almost a week. I grew concerned and called customer support three times, and was rudely told by one woman that the website had the latest information and that's where I should focus my attention; the two other reps I spoke to were polite but uninformed. I was supposed to be sent a FedEx tracking number as soon as it shipped, but lo and behold, it was delivered one day when I wasn't home, although that night the website still said it hadn't been put in the box. Afterwards, there was no way to track the problem, since FedEx's website gives a "duplicate tracking number" error when I enter the number. The package was also left without any attempt made to get someone to sign for it, disturbing to say the least. The long and short of it all is that I paid for next-day shipping, but basically was unable to receive it the day it was delivered due to poor tracking by Dell. The last time I spoke to them on the phone they blamed the whole thing on the Slammer worm. In the past, I've had even more major problems with Dell shipping. One desktop machine was left on my doorstep in plain view during a snowstorm; I arrived home to find the machine in its box (which had a gaping rent in the side) with a pile of snow on top. Dell's support is the worst I've ever received from a company except for Columbia House DVD Club. I complained mightily, albeit politely, about all this and told their support people that unless I was refunded my shipping fees this time, I will not buy another thing from Dell. The last time I heard from them was two weeks ago; the issue was left hanging. I'm not worried about it any more, but I'm through with them. Next time I'll probably try Compaq.
This computer is a real desktop system replacement, because it comes fully loaded with everything you need. My system came with a 1.8GZh Pentium-4 Mobile, 512MB RAM, 64MB Video, DVD/CD-RW combo, docking station, monitor stand, and a bunch of accessories. I also bought the 19-inch Dell Trinitron monitor, which is amazing and highly rated as well. A 4-year warranty came with the laptop. The first thing I noticed was it's weight, this thing is heavier than it looks and feels like a few big books are in the specially-designed padded backpack that came with it. The floppy drive in the front can be removed and replaced with a second battery, which is great for power! The DVD/CD-RW is on the side, with the network connection and card slots. There is a 40GB hard drive inside. The docking station is useless when it comes to network and sound connectivity, both ports do not work. I have to connect the network cable to the laptop directly and I have to use the laptop speakers for sound, instead of the nice speakers that sit on my desk. I called Dell many times about this and they agreed to replace the docking station after hours of trying to make it work. I expect that to arrive shortly. Another thing that I noticed is sometimes this computer is slower than my 1GHz Pentium-III when starting and running some applications. It just takes longer to get revved up and has many power-saving utilities and options that put it to sleep every now and then. These can be customized, but it's still slow to warm up. Once the applications are running it's smooth sailing from there. The laptop screen is not very even under light and provides a lot of shading when you look at it at an angle. The touchpad is also accompanied by a little knob in the middle of the keyboard so you have a choice. Everything is adjustable and customizable, like screen brightness, touchpad sensitivity, mouse cursor speed and so on. The screen size is a generous 15.1 inches. I am very happy with this laptop and it's solid construction makes me confident that it will last a while.
Here is the skinny - If you are in the market to buy a laptop and are looking for a desktop replacement rather than a road warrior, this is the machine to buy. I have owned an Inspiron 8000 previously which i was extremely happy with. I upgraded to this model a week ago. For $1,628 i got a 1.8GHz Pentium 4, 128MB RAM, 20GB HDD, DVD, 15" SXGA+ (1400*1050) display, 32MB GeForce4Go, Windows XP Home and 1yr warranty. I spent another $70 buying a 256MB stick of RAM from www.upgradenation.com. When i first got my laptop, i was pleasantly surprised to observe that the construction quality had improved since the 8000 model. The display tilts much more smoothly, the keyboard is subtly better, the body seems more rigid. However, its still not as good as i would like to be - example Sony Vaio. But for its price, the quality is extremely good. I was actually worried that since these laptops are cheaper (i bought my Inspiron 8000 for $2,300), they might have skimped on quality but i was wrong. I ran the 3DMark2001 benchmark to check out the performance of the GeForce4Go video card and was amazed to see a score of 4,900. This means it will play even the latest action games smoothly. I also have my PCMark2002 scores posted at -http://service.madonion.com/compare?pcm=389933 if you'd like to compare with your existing laptop to see if its worthwhile to upgrade. The other good thing about a laptop like this is that you can keep it current by upgrading down the road. You can buy a bigger and faster hard disk to further improve performance. The memory can be upgraded all the way to 1,024MB. Just like the older models, i expect Dell will allow you to upgrade the video card in the future also. The only thing this laptop is missing (which a lot of other new ones are too) is USB 2.0 support. Considering that most of the new external devices like DVD/CD burners, hard disks provide connectivity through USB 2.0 instead of FireWire, i am afraid that i might not be able to buy the accessories i want 'cause this laptop wont support them.
This will be the last PC based computer we will ever buy... because it will last so long ?? No.... because we have had it with computer lock-ups and will move on to Apple. We had heard so many good things about Dell. Their laptops are always ranked #1 #2 and # 3 on PC World. I am very suspicious with these rankings. It is hard to imagine that there is a computer that is worse than our Dell. After our Inspiron arrived by mail we almost immediately started having problems with the screen freezing up. Not while we were working, but if we let the computer sit for about 10 minutes, (where normal computers screen savers would come up) our screen would go black, with a small strip of the screen below on the left side of the screen. This problem gradually became worse, so it was difficult to just send the computer back. We called Dell (since we had paid for extra On site service etc). We waited online for several minutes, having to listen to all sorts of messages 1st. Finally someone came online and told us that yes they have problems with this, sometimes we will have to reboot. Well let me tell you "sometimes" is practically every time we go on the computer. I have tried to call Dell on several occasions, most times they tell me to go online to find patches, etc. I have never been able to find anything. Once Dell mailed us a floppy to fix the problem. This also did not work. My mistake was being so patient with Dell. My advise, if you have any problems with your Dell Laptop send it back immediately, do not hang around for their terrible service. My Dad also bought a Dell Ispiron 4000 and has similar problems. He also has had the run around when he called Dell. Anyways, I would strongly recommend you stay clear of Dell. It seems that they are more concerned with their stock price. The bad service is also an attempt to save on expenses. In the end the consumer pays. Terrible computers and even worse customer service. Period. I'll let you know how our research goes re: Apple and post a review on what to buy.
I purchased this for business and for note taking in class. I'm a student, so I wanted something that was powerful enough to handle all the audio, video, multimedia and software I would use in it. I also wanted something to play DVD's when I'm on the road. Overall I am very impressed with this unit. I configured mine with 512 MB of Ram, 1.8 GHz P4 processor, 64 MB Video card, and a 60GB hard drive. All for about $3,800. I also purchased the docking station so I would not have to find an outlet to charge this every time I get home. This way, all I do is slide it on the docking station and it's instantly charging, and has a desktop mouse and keyboard ready to use. The sound is good, I would give it a 6 out of 10. That may sound low, but the highest I would give any notebook that I have heard is 8. The screen is VERY sharp, very clear and perfect for DVD's. People are so surprised that the screen looks as good as it does. The video card is equipped with a Geforce4Go with 64MB of ram. Perfect for high-res graphics. The keyboard is wonderful. Very quite and sturdy. The added track pad/mouse stick is great! This is perfect for users who are sharing this, or people who get tired of using one of the other all the time. The wireless card option is perfect for people who hate having to plug their laptop into a network using cords. I was able to get a good signal about 50 feet away! The battery life was great because I purchased dual batteries, thus giving me extra battery life (a total of about 4-5 hours depending on use). CompleteCare is great, and Dell is the only one who offers it as far as I know. If I drop my notebook, supposedly Dell will replace any broken pieces, or even the notebook itself. That is great, especially if you have kids or travel a lot! The problems with Dell notebooks are the quality of tech support. Many times I found myself training them over the phone with their own stuff! Of all the times I called them (20X+) I only spoke with one person who was polite. Most of the reps are rude, and in some cases insulting. I asked for supervisors, but they almost always hang up or refuse to get one for you. I am an advanced user, with many years experience. I mainly called support for minor issues, also so I could get a feel of how helpful their support team was. The reason I mention this is because if you are a user who needs tech support, I would not suggest Dell. However, if you are a user who is able to do most things on your own without help, I would highly recommend this notebook.
 I am a very choosy buyer and especially when it comes to shelving out more than $1k for anything. So I did a lot of research for about a month and basically it boiled down to Dell I8200($1574 with S/H), Sony FXA-49($1399), Gateway 450 and Compaq 2720($1399). The 2720 does not come with internal floppy drive and also I heard that compaq has horrible service record. In addition to that, they won't honor the warranty for screen unless it has more that 5 burnt pixels. The Sony was very good, in fact has the best sound system that I have heard and the coolest looks. But I am still a bit hesitant to go with AMD and also it had only SDRAM and 8MB of video memory. Gateway was more than the similarly configured Dell by $200. So finally it was only I8200. All I can say is that I am extremely satisfied with the product. The graphics is excellent and the screen very sharp and bright. Among the numerous plus points --- almost all types of interfaces are there except Bluetooth. I didn't purchase the WLAN card from Dell(they were charging $99 for that --- you can get it at much cheaper price outside) but has the capability to do so. The sound system even though not the greatest is pretty decent. Only if you put it to max volume there is a tiny noise associated. The only flip side is that the system gets heated and the fans are quite noisy. I have burnt CDs and watched DVDs and there were no frame loss. Did some testing of the customer service(had read a whole bunch of -ive comments!!!)and all the three times they have been very polite and helpful. So all in all I would say its a great system. My config is : 1. P-4-M 1.6G 2. 20 GB HD 3. 256MB DDR SDRAM 4. 32 MB Geforce2Go( I am not much of a gamer so don't need geforce4 or 64MB) 5. 3.5 floppy 6. CDRW-DVDROM
 ... as after reading several comments here on Dell's customer service I ran into the following. There is an advertisement in todays paper for the 8200 offering the unit for $2499 $CDN under E-value code 56322-CBCV4W1. This is a fantastic value and I'll probably buy a unit in any case but when you use the E-Value code online to enter the order strange things start to happen. First, a window pops up: "To enhance your Dell experience, we have configured your system with Dell's Recommended Upgrades, which may include a larger monitor for optimized viewing, a bigger hard drive for storage, more memory for system productivity and/or Dell's award-winning 3-Year On-Site Service. TO OBTAIN THE ADVERTISED PRICE, use the simple dropdown menus to remove these upgrades and update your price. Easy as Online. Easy as Dell." Then on checking the price you see that it is $2569... not $2499 as advertised!! So on proceeding to the pull down menus to adjust it back to the advertised price, as they claim you can do, THERE IS NO WAY TO DO IT!!!! To my further delight, on reviewing the RAM the standard configuration is 2x128M SoDIMMS. In order to get 512M RAM you have to take the option of 2x256 which adds $240 to the base price. Leaving all else the same results in a total of $2809. Checking with Crucial shows no advantage in buying there. I found it strange that in a MS XP world Dell would configure all their high end notebooks in this manner. In fact the Dell price per strip exactly matches what I'd pay through Crucial. On impulse, I went back and started fresh without using the E-Value code. I configured the 8200 just as per the advertised package including the upgrade to 2x256M SoDIMMs. What a coincidence.... $2809. Hmmmm! *** Update May 24, 2002 *** I called Dell today to order an 8200. This weeks specials were a free HD upgrade from 20 to 30G and a free memory upgrade from 128 to 256M (but still 2x128 strips, grumph!). So I called and via the small business group, talked with "M". M had a lot of troubles clarifying the warranty for me - she just did NOT know the policies available. But what really rocked me is that she wouldn't accept the configuration I was looking at. I was told the 1.4Ghz CPU was no longer available, that it was only showing on the web site due a URL error. Then I was told it had something to do with time zones. I'm PST but I called at 11:30 AM, well before the close of Dell's EST business day. She gave me a verbal price that was about $250 higher than I was looking at in the Dell configurator. So I told her I wouldn't close the order until I saw something in writing and was told she'd be faxing that right over. 5 hours later it is not here and I've probably not a leg to stand on to buy using this past week's pricing & specials. The Dell system has already changed over to next weeks "special" and it is strictly "free shipping" A $119 value (btw... I've sourced a lot of airfreight in the last 10 years and have never paid more than $40 for 2nd day air for 20 lbs... can you say "Profit Center"?). I'm going to wait until a better Dell "special" is available and maybe one of the other big name manufacturers will bring a unit to market offering the same graphics capability in my price range. Those new Compaq 2800T's look mighty sexy and www.Anandtech.com/mobile has an excellent review of one. 3 lbs lighter, USB 2.0 + wireless + DVD/CD-RW + 30G HD all standard (have to buy the floppy). Too bad you can't get the 2800T model in Canada or I'd order one right now. The bottom line for me now... is Dell a company I can trust? Anyone from Dell want to address this?
I purchased my Inspiron around the end of May, and since the moment I ordered Dell's customer service was exceptional. Upon recieving the Inspiron, setup was simple - requiring me to answer only a few simple questions. The Inspiron is a great choice for all those who are in need for a reliable system, capable of preforming the same tasks as on a desktop - actually this laptop outpreforms many desktops being sold currently, with an optional 2.0 Gigahertz processor and up to 1 Gig of special DDR Ram Memory - hard drive space? You can get up to 60 Gigs. There is one fixed drive, which you may chose, as well as one modular drive in which you can place anything from an extra CD drive, ZIP drive, Floppy drive, or place a spare battery thus increasing your portability time away from an outlet. But be careful, this computer doesnt come cheap, while the price runs higher than most other laptops, its reliability, customer service record, and features make it worth it if you are looking for a system to use at home/work/road/school, both stationary and mobile. Other Specs: 2 USB Ports ->Easily more by purchasing a 4 port USB hub Touchpad mouse AND Pointer mouse Firewire (IEEE 1394) port ->Quick hookup for Digital Cameras etc Infrared Port ->Easily connect to PDA's, Printers, other devices w/Infrared capabilities Dell TrueMobile Mini PCI card -> I would definatly go for this option, it's an interal wireless network card ->Great especially if your workplace/home/campus is wirelessly networked If you wish to have more information visit http://www.dell.com/us/en/dhs/products/series_inspn_notebooks.htm By the way, If you're interested in Dual Booting a Dell Laptop with Linux and Win XP, let me know, I'll be more than happy to help, I was required to do so for college, and did so multiple times throughout the past few months.
Overview The Dell Inspiron 8200 is a great all around notebook, in fact it is best called a desktop-replacement mobile PC because it contains the power of a mid-range PC in the size of a notebook. However this comes at a price; the laptop weighs a good 5-7 lbs depending on configuration. The Inspiron is no exception to Dell’s industry-leading performance and support in their products. This laptop performs very well and Dell offers many different support options when purchasing your PC. The following is a breakdown of this PC as well as some of the bugs/quirks I have found along with it and the configuration of my laptop. My System - 1.6 P4 –M processor - 256 MB DDR RAM - 16x DVD-ROM/CD-RW combo Drive - 32 MB NVIDIA GeForce 2 2GO video card - 56K modem/ (10/100) network port (built in) - 30GB Hard Drive - WIN XP Home - Standard Battery - 15" LCD Screen UXGA Resolution Package and Shipping When I received the Inspiron 8200 it came within a week of my ordering it. The laptop came all in one box, packaged very neatly with the instruction manual on top. Once out of the box I was able to plug the machine in and use it right away, without having to &#145condition’ the battery. This was very nice, and I started the machine and instantly I was given the initial Win XP screen to setup my usernames and password. The setup was painless and I was off and running in no time. Which leads me to the performance issue: Performance The Inspiron 8200 is powered by the powerful Intel Pentium 4-M processor. For my configuration I ordered the 1.6 Ghz processor. This processor is powered by Intel’s SpeedStep technology. This enables the OS to cycle the Processor down depending on the demands of the current task(s). This is a great powersaving mechanism and can be disabled in the system. Initially my system showed great performance running through the basic tasks, until I started loading programs on which tends to slow any machine down. However, the Inspiron 8200 is very much able to handle some serious number crunching despite its small size. It is definitely one of the speedier notebooks on the market. After six months of extensive use (it is my primary computer), I have noticed a few unexplainable quirks. Sometimes when running on battery power the computer will not start when the power button is pressed. This can usually be fixed by plugging in the power adapter or by putting the battery in a different bay. The other quirk is with the NVIDIA GeForce2 2GO video card. Sometimes, despite driver updates, the computer will freeze and the screen will shrink to a little square in the middle and will remain like that until the machine is restarted. I have been unable to explain it, it happens infrequently, and I haven’t sought technical assistance from Dell. This notebook not only runs applications well but it is a great portable DVD player. I have used this notebook plenty of times as such a device. I have plugged it into TVs (another great feature!), into home theater systems, into headphones, and have been able to watch crystal clear DVD movies. As far as other multimedia performance goes the Inspiron 8200 handles most of the demands quite well. The images are usually very clear and the sound, when hooked up to external speakers, is very nice. If no external speakers are used the laptop’s built-in speaker system is merely okay. It does not have a very high max volume, and the sounds are kind of flat, and not rich and deep as with a three piece system. The other slight drawback comes with the monitor. The LCD screen has a very narrow viewing angle, blurring or changing colors at various angles. This can be a problem when trying to watch a DVD from afar, but other than that the nice 15" screen is very nice. PROS -- Big LCD screen -- Touchpad & Eraser pad mouse -- Two easy access media bays -- Two USB Ports -- Video Out capability w/ adapter -- Built- in Microphone -- Battery indicator lights on battery -- Media buttons on the top -- Removable palm rests -- Easy access to RAM and other key system upgrades -- Built in IR -- Very customizable when ordered -- Mini Firewire port -- Relatively quiet CONS -- Thicker then a lot of notebooks -- One of the heavier notebooks -- Screen does not have a large viewing angle -- Slow Hard drive -- Built in speakers are merely okay Conclusion To conclude this review the Dell Inspiron is a great notebook for someone who is looking for having a versatile computer, a hybrid between a desktop and a notebook. However if multimedia is not a necessity for you then consider stepping down to the next notebook level for Dell. If looking for speed then I would opt for a desktop because you can get more bang for your buck in that department. For me the choice was simple, I am a college student and I wanted something I could carry to class as well as something that would be easy to take home during a vacation. This PC has everything I want, and has room to grow. I am very impressed with this laptop and I would buy a Dell notebook again.
I have had my Dell Inspiron 8200 for about a year. Before I had the 8200 I had the 8000. I only had one problem with the 8000; it was a display problem that could not be fixed. So Dell sent me a newer model, brand new computer. Since then I have had no other problems. My computer works great. I have plenty of memory, and with a Pentium 4, I have all of the speed I need. The system is fully loaded. I have two USB ports and even an IR port that I use with my PDA. The Computer is a little heaver than some, but that is because Dell did not sacrifice function ability for size. It is still quite portable though. It has a big screen and shortcut keys. I have a DVD-Rom and a CD-RW on the computer for burning and watching movies. I used to use it as a DVD player, video game console, and an audio editor. It worked great since I could plug it into my television and see the display on my screen. To complete the package, the system boasts a powerful battery. I have personally used the computer for over 3 hours while I watched movies and played video games. I have had computers from a lot of different manufacturers and I must say that Dell by far has the best costumer service. Their equipment is first rate and the technology is up to date. I recommend this computer of any other dell product to anyone looking for a well built computer and great costumer service.
Meet Max! Mar 10 '02 (Updated Mar 10 '02) Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Gee, it's an Apple Cons Help doesn't help me The Bottom Line What are you waiting for? You need this machine. But you can't have mine. Full Review I thought for my 200th review I should do something special. But I didn't. Here's to 200 more. Not long after Max (my iBook) arrived Ruin13's fiancée walked up to me and said "I hear you got a new iBook." I replied. "Yes! He's cute!" I believe this just confirmed his opinion of me as a slightly off center weirdo. Eh. Truth hurts more if you don't just accept it from the get go. Max is cute. He's all white and the little apple on his cover lights up when I have him on. Total strangers have cooed over him as if he were a particularly adorable baby and some of my friends are plotting getting one of their own. ~So what's so great about Max?~ First of all, he's a Mac. This translated into common tongue means that Max is super easy to run. Turn him on and he goes. Just like magic. I'm a junkie now. Sit me down in front of a PC and I'm apt to spent a lot of time cursing it when I can't quit an application with a simple keystroke or navigate Excel with one finger. Then there's all the cool stuff Max came pre-loaded with. There's the usual stuff, mail, Internet Explorer, Appleworks (a lesser word processing program with greater art capabilities than Word), Sherlock (which is a shortcut file finder), and Quicktime. Do PCs come with that stuff or do they figure they have you over a barrel after you spent less on the machine so they make you pay, what, $500 for Word? Thank you, sir, may I have another? Max also came with (for free and nothing) iTunes, iMovie, and iPhoto. ITunes is probably the easiest MP3 dealie on the market. It took me about 20 minutes to master it because I assumed it was more difficult than it was. I haven't played with iMovie yet and I haven't even loaded iPhoto because I'm still too enchanted with iTunes to be bothered. I have absolute faith that once I start playing with those applications I will be entertained for months after a short introductory learning session. (Should you have a Mac and desire iTunes for yourself go to: http://www.apple.com/itunes/download/ . Should you not have a Mac and desire iTunes, um, I'm sorry.) Max is packed with memory and charges up really fast. I'd tell you how much memory, but those numbers didn't mean enough to me to stick in my mind. It's probably enough for me to edit a 2 hour movie without having to delete my game. I did, however, run him down to nothing on his battery shortly after arrival and it took between 90 minutes and 2 hours to charge up. And there's one stupid Mac trick that makes me smile every time. When you click on a file to open it, it bounces while it's opening. Yes, it's stupid, but it never fails to bring a goofy grin to my face to see the iTunes icon bouncing up and down. And if you want to pretend don't have the most fun as well as the best machine going, there's a downlaod you can get to make it stop. You can also set the icons on the genius bar to magnify when you pass the cursor over them which is also a lot of fun, but gets in my way. ~The upgrades~ I didn't order the stripped down iBook. Oh no, I needed, required, could not live without DVD playing capabilities. And I'm actually impressed. I was afraid it would look like a big screen projection TV. It doesn't. The picture gets faded or darkened depending on how far off center you are, but the screen is only 9.75 inches wide, how far away did you think you were going to get? Three people could sit abreast and watch a movie without trouble. I also got (but don't tell my husband, it's a surprise for his birthday) a CD burner. Yes, inside Max's guts hides a CD burner. ITunes being the super simple process that it is, all you have to do to burn CDs is click a button. No, I'm serious. There's a button on the screen that says Burn CD. Click it and wait a few minutes. I think it took 20 minutes or half an hour when I tried it. ~What's not great about Max?~ Not much, but there are a few things. The speakers aren't so great, but I didn't expect much from a speaker the size of my thumb. The help section is nearly impossible for me to navigate. It sort of works like Ask Jeeves. You type in a question and it provides you with likely topics for your answer. I labor with the handicap of an English major so I know how to research and this kind of help just isn't helpful for me. I'm also not crazy about the mouse pad thing. I'd be happier if they just took that out and put in hole for a removable mouse. Steve, if you're paying attention, that's the only thing I really want. The only thing that truly bugs me is the color. (I'm such a girl that way.) I actually liked the colored clamshells. I'm sure Yoko Ono approves of the all white design, but I'm just worried about getting it smudged. I haven't taken the plastic cover off the battery thing because I want to keep it from getting banged up. So I guess there's another thing I really, really want. Color. Can you see Max with a nice sapphire blue case? He'd be really cute then. I recommend Macs to everyone except game junkies. There isn't much in the way of games and what there is comes out months after the PC version. I, however, find that to be a boon. If Max and the Blue Meanie could play lots and lots of wonderful games I would be forever playing games and never writing. The world would be poorer by 2 romance novels in the last 6 months alone. (Stop laughing, it is too a loss.) Get an iBook and discover how accessible computers can be. I must be off. I'm either going to watch my DVD of Earthquake or I'm going to finish that CD I started to assemble the other day. Or maybe I should be writing. The world needs more quality romance novels. PS  I feel I should share the origin of Max's name The original Blue Max is from the Brian Daley Han Solo adventures. Blue Max was a smallish computer, carried around in the chest cavity of a robot named Bollux. I will not be carrying Max around in my chest. I'm already carrying some vital organs there. PPS - Yyvonne, did I win? I haven't seen your review yet. Recommended Yes
A nice blend of features, size, and performance Aug 06 '02 Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Great design, Solid performance, Mac OS X easy to use, Nice Application bundle Cons No monitor spanning, newbies might not like support options The Bottom Line A versatile notebook with a great blend of features and software, with the design and ease-of-use of Apple. For PC users looking to switch - this is an ideal notebook. Full Review After several years away from the Mac, I've finally decided to return and try out the iBook. I'm currently using the May 2002 iBook 700 Mhz, 12.1" combo-drive model, and it's a great little notebook. Specifications: - 700 Mhz G3 Processor, 512K L2 cache - 128 MB ram standard, 384 MB as reviewed - 20 GB HD, 8x8x24 CD-RW/8X DVD Combo drive - 12.1" TFT-LCD display, capable of up 1024x768 resolution - ATI Radeon Mobility grahpics with 16MB VRAM - 2 USB, 1 Firewire, 10/100 Ethernet, 56k modem, A/V port with S-Video/Composite and VGA output, earphone port - Internal Airport (802.11b wireless) slot First Impressions: When I first opened the box, and took out everything, I was pleased with the layout of everything, and it took seconds to get everything out. You can see that Apple takes great care in the layout and presentation of everything they do. I looked at the manual and found it to be a very short one (about 40 pages), with numerous graphical illustrations showing the basics of where things are on the iBook, as well as a brief overview of OS X and the main applications such as Mail, iPhoto, and iTunes. I went ahead and just plugged the power adapter into the outlet and the iBook, turned it on, and about 2 minutes later, OS X appeared right on screen. So far no problems. Usage: The iBook is an extremely well-built notebook, and runs very well. Don't let the 700MHz fool you, it is very "snappy" and is enough processing power for most tasks, even the occasional Photoshop should be fine. It runs all preinstalled applications well, and OS X is an extremely stable OS. Built on BSD Unix, it allows the freedom for beginners to use OS X without the terminal, and for advanced users to launch the terminal and get straight into all the Unix stuff. Either way, the stability is incredible; I have run many applications at once, and the system doesn't crash. If, by chance, one of your programs does freeze, a control-apple-escape key combination (similar to control-alt-delete in Windows) will bring up a force-quit screen where you can quit the misbehaving program. I did find that running several apps can cause the system to become slower, but this is due to a lack of RAM. When I upgraded the RAM to 384MB, I found that multitasking became much smoother, and all applications open in 1-2 "bounces" now, versus the 5-7 bounces with 128MB. The Radeon Mobility graphics is a welcome addition, as the 16 MB of ram will help the more graphics-intensive applications. In addition, this allows the iBook to take advantage of Quartz Extreme graphics acceleration in Mac OS 10.2 (Jaguar) coming out late-August. 20 GB of hard drive space should be plenty for most consumer and student uses, and the combination CD-RW/DVD drive. If you need more space, you can customize one with 30GB or 40GB at the Apple Store online. After running the iBook for a while the area to the left of the trackpad becomes quite warm, as well as the left half underneath. Not hot enough to cook anything on, but it does get a bit warm. I find that it's much warmer when the AC adapter is plugged in... when it's runnning on the battery it is just a little warm, and not very noticeable. There are several little features on the iBook which are very nice. For example, there is a button on the battery you can press which allows you to check the battery life, and 4 lights indicate the battery status. In addition, when you put the iBook into sleep mode by closing the lid, the area to the left of the latch begins to pulsate a white glow, as if it's breathing (Oh my!) which is pretty cool. It has excellent battery life, under normal use you'll get a solid 4 hours(if not more) out of a fully-charged battery, while watching DVDs you'll probably get closer to 2.5-3 hours, still enough for those long movies. Applications: The iBook comes loaded with its own suite of imaging and audio applications: iPhoto for importing/basic editing of photos, iTunes for organizing and playing mp3 music, and iMovie for editing your own movies. All of the programs are well laid out and show off the ease of use with which Apple takes care to put into each of their products. iPhoto makes it quite easy to store and organize your digital photos. The recently updated iTunes will burn mp3s from your audio CDs, organize them and even create "Smart Playlists" that allow you to choose a couple options and automatically make a playlist based on your selections. It also features a rating system to help make it easier for you to get your favorite tunes. Although I don't use digital video, iMovie will help you to edit movies, place in transitions and other effects into your movies easily. In addition, it comes with Appleworks, Apple's basic office suite with a word processor, spreadsheet, database and presentation program. While it's no Microsoft Office, it'll get basic office tasks done, and you can always purchase Microsoft Office for OS X if you find that Appleworks doesn't suit your needs. For internet use it comes with AOL, Internet Explorer, Quicktime, and an e-mail application. Quicktime has been recently updated to version 6, and is a very nice program that supports the newer MPEG-4 open standard as well as "Instant on" streaming for movies that have been enabled with this functionality, so you can skip to any part of a movie streamed from the Internet without any delay. It's built in Sherlock tool allows you to search the Internet, look up products in stores, search the news, as well as Apple's support sites all from one application. To round things out, it has World Book Encyclopedia, as well as three games: A nicely designed Chess game, Otto-Matic, and Deimos Rising. For developers, OS X also comes with free Developer tools which allows you to create your own Carbon and Cocoa OS X programs in Objective-C as well as Java. One thing I've found very nice with OS X is the basic installation proess for most programs. To install a program, simply open up a disk image, and drag the contents into the Application folder. To uninstall, simply select the item and drag it to the Trash and empty it. It can't possibly be any simpler. Gripes: - Monitor spanning. The iBook only allows for video mirroring at resolutions up to 1024x768. It would be really nice if spanning was enabled on the iBook. Right now, only the more expensive PowerBooks supports spanning. - PC card slot. While not necessary because of bult in modem/ethernet as well as Firewire and USB ports and an Airport slot, it would have been a nice addition for expandability. - Support options. For some this may be important. It comes with a one year parts/labor warranty, but phone tech support is only for 90 days, afterwards it's $49/incident unless you buy Applecare ($249) that extends your warranty to 3 years parts/labor and 3 years phone support. While some may find this as a lack of support, the users in the Apple support forums as well as various Mac forums on the internet are very enthusiastic about Apple, and it's not very hard to get advice online. Conclusion Overall the iBook is an excellent notebook with just about everything you need. With a fairly fast processor, ample hard drive space, a combo drive, the stability of Mac OS X as well as Apple's easy to use programs, it's a well-rounded notebook. Whether you go with the 12.1" screen that's 5 lbs, or the 14.1" screen at 6 lbs, it's something that you'll take around everywhere, and it looks great as well. My only suggestion would be to upgrade the RAM to 384 MB, as it can get a bit sluggish with only 128MB. If you're a PC user looking to switch, take a definite look at this notebook. It's arguably the best priced offering from Apple, and it will satisfy most people's needs. Recommended Yes
My first and favorite lap top! Dec 02 '02 (Updated Dec 08 '02) Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Ultra: portable, light, friendly, space-efficient, novice/intermediate laptop, crisp and colorful image, ROCKS!!! Cons Maybe a little expensive but well worth it. The Bottom Line For basic needs (word processing, burning CDs, watching DVDs, spreadsheets, Internet, games, photo shop, making movies), I got it all in my lap! Just me and my G3! Full Review I remember the day I got my iBook. The box was so cute that I didn't even want to open it. Once I did, I found a stylish laptop waiting to be explored and put to use. However, I was afraid to touch it. I just wanted to admire its beauty, its style, and imagine the things I could do with it. I ordered my iBook via www.apple.com prior to the end of 2001. This was before the 14" screen came out and before the 700 mhz G3 processor was out too. I built my iBook to have a combo drive (DVD/CD-RW), 384 MB (256 MB was standard), and 30G hard drive space (20G was standard; the 30G option gives you 27.85 G for your personal use after the other space is given to internal programs.) Cool things about this laptop: Weighs 4 lbs. and doesn't need any additional hardward that you snap on or off... Has sleep mode so once you open the laptop, it automatically is ready for you to use - no time wasted for the computer to reboot Very sleek and stylish that you turn heads at the Barnes and Noble coffee shop when writing up a storm! Absolutely portable everywhere; fits in your backpack, suitcase, underneath your car seat, and you can even store it on your bookshelf. Easy controls on a keyboard for volume and bright control Everything you need is in the box, except a detailed owner's manual. I don't know if this is necessarily a good thing, but I guess you get to know your iBook better through trial and error, experimentation, and just snooping around the computer. I used the iTunes program first as one of the reasons I got the lap top was to burn cds and take my library of music everywhere I go. The sound system is actually beyond decent for a laptop, filling up my room and audible throughout my apartment. Hook it up to some iStix or Sony speakers and you have a great jukebox! The burn program is super easy that you can begin making cds once you load up all your music you want. Even though the world uses MicroSoft for word processing, database, spreadsheet and power point presentations, Apple has the same programs Apple-style with AppleWorks. AppleWorks lets you translate MicroSoft files such as Word and Excel to use on the Apple computers as well as save your created AppleWorks files as MicroSoft Word or Excel. Of course, you lose some meaning in the translations (as in any language), but you can work on the same file back and forth. (I did take the MicroSoft demo for Apple and it was very colorful and busy..so much more than the MS package you use in the office. It was more of a turn off but it really looked sharp!) I was concerned that the 12 inch screen would be small and difficult to work off of; but quite contrary. I think it is the perfect size, great for everything I do on the iBook - even watching movies. The colors are vibrant and all the fonts and icons are alive. I can't believe this is a lap top! If everything could look this awesome. The computer comes with its power cord (that can be used in a variety of ways), a very very basic manual, a warranty booklet, and back up compact disks for rebooting your computer if you wanted to every start fresh. It also comes with a test disk to run checks on your iBook every now and then. I find the keyboard to work extremely well, but if my hands were any bigger, I would probably feel arthiritic after a couple of hours of typing. Mouse pad takes a bit getting use to but once you get the hang of it, easy to guide your cursor around. Every iBook comes with a 1 year warranty and 90 day tech support; you can purchase extended warranty for 3 years, which includes tech support. Any time you need help, call 1-800-MY-APPLE and get the help you need. I have had my computer for close to one year now, and I had a few keys on the keyboard stop responding. Because I was in warranty, Apple quickly sent a box to put my iBook in and send it for a repair. Quicker than I could say "I miss my iBook," I had my computer back. No shipping costs came out of my pocket. No fees to repair (got a new keyboard) and the best customer service anyone can receive - I found that I could rely and have peace of mind with buying this computer and with Apple. I have always loved Apple products and I knew my first computer was going to be one. I was actually in the market for the iMac but I totally fell in love with the iBook when I first saw it. As a creative writer, I wanted the flexibility of taking my lap top anywhere to catch those inspiring moments! One thing that I think may be exaggerated in the specs is that the battery can last up to 5 hours. I think I may have had four hours just using games or word processing, but add in DVD or iTunes, depending on the volume and light (brightness) intensity, battery power can reduce quickly. Usually for a movie, I have had success with close to 2 hours. I am sure there is still more to learn about this excellent product (I am still exploring) and I become amazed that I extremely happy with my purchase. It's easy for me to say switch from Windows because I've never cared for it since it is a rip off of Apple in the first place. But I certainly can recommend anyone to try it. Eating the real thing is better than glass. You may eventually have to buy some manuals to get to know your iBook, but it will be well worth the knowledge and experience to handle such a fantastic piece of technology. There is really so much you can do. And you can always go to www.apple.com to update the latest downloads to upgrade your software. Apple even has a great built-in network of users to get together at the site. I wouldn't want anything else than my iBook! Recommended Yes
Power and Privacy Aug 16 '02 Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Keeps Microsoft's snoops away, beautiful power, CD-RW, DVD, great software Cons More power than necessary for beginning computer users The Bottom Line The iBook G3 offers the best of the Mac experience: power, ease of use, and respect. Why go with the snoops at Microsoft? Full Review I got my first iBook just a few weeks ago to use in my consulting business. I travel all around the country conducting interviews and psychological analysis, and so I need to enter information, write reports and give information on the go. Internet accessibility wherever I happen to land, as well as multi-media hookup, is also necessary for me. I couldn't be happier with the iBook. First of all, a note on numbers: most Windows computers have Pentium chips with high clock speeds (the Megahertz you're always hearing about), but what those computer makers don't tell you is that Pentium's business plan includes producing the highest clock speeds possible, no matter what. Their idea is that ignorant consumers would only pay attention to the clock speed number, and not wonder at all about how well the computer actually performs. Pentium's PC chips turn out to be quite inefficient. The upshot is that although most PCs are running at just a bit above 1000 megahertz and my iBook is running at 700 megahertz, my iBook actually performs faster. All of Apple's Macs are sold with the new operating system X these days, and my experience with it has been nothing but grand. It does all the things that Windows XP does, without any of the awful system incompatibilities problems that XP has become infamous for. OS X also has a lot of nice little perks, like the function that allows the user to create a PDF file from any file in any program. A lot of folks worry about transitioning their old operating system 9 software to OS X. I was too, but was pleasantly suprised to find that the computer automatically starts operating system 9 whenever I ask it to open a document or application that's native to the old operating system. The battery power on my iBook is very solid and predictable: about 6 hours for one battery, as long as I'm not watching a DVD. Then it's a bit shorter, maybe four hours. As for portability, well, all laptops are portable, but very few are as eye-catching as the iBook. I've noticed there's a kind of panache to having one in firms that deal with the more creative side of business: advertising firms are filled with them. Far and away the top reason I had for buying an iBook instead of a Windows XP computer is that I don't much want to be spied on. Unfortunately, Mr. Gates and his minions over at Microsoft appear to be up to their old tricks. Windows XP requires users to sign up for the Microsoft Passport, which tracks people as they use software, request customer support, and worst of all, as they surf the Internet! In order to use a Windows XP computer, you've got to agree to let Bill Gates collect information on practically everything you do on your computer. Thanks, but I don't want to go there today. That's just one of the many insulting new features of Windows XP that has persuaded me to go with Apple and buy an iBook. It's not just about user-friendliness. It's about respect for my privacy. Recommended Yes
A great notebook for work and play Jul 22 '02 (Updated Jul 22 '02) Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Lightweight, long battery life, full-featured Cons Crippled video output, region-specific DVD player The Bottom Line The iBook is a winner - whether for business, for home or for school. It's a computer that lets you do work, and lets you enjoy working on it. Full Review This article is written completely in Appleworks 6.2.4 on Mac OS X 10.1.5, on my iBook. Making The Switch There are very few items that inspire unbridled technolust in me. These are generally items that marry good technology with beautiful design. The first one was Psion Series 3a (1994), the second one Palm V (1999), and now the iBook. I had my eye on the iBook since it first came out in May 2001. However, back then I could not justify the purchase to myself. In time, the iBook kept looking better and better with the gradual upgrades. I finally caved in and made my decision to buy my own iBook in March. This is my first personal notebook, and my first personal Mac. What's in the box? Inside the well-designed box of goodies, Apple has thrown in : - The iBook (of course!) - Power adaptor - VGA adaptor cable - Modem cable - 10 CDs (software restore and applications) - A very thin & skimpy manual. It contains just a couple of pages on the iBook itself, the rest is on OS X and bundled applications - warranty etc. - A pair of white apple stickers - 1 blank CDR Look, touch and feel The iBook is definitely an attention getter. I have used it in public places and every time, people will look at it and ask about it. A white notebook is still considered a novelty where I am. Something about the iBook just begs you to hold it! It's very easy to get fingerprints on the white polycarbonate casing, however it's equally easy to wipe off. I really encourage potential buyers to hold it in their hands, look at the screen and type on the keyboard. While it was perfect for me, some people might feel the screen is too small . The compact form factor is a definite plus for me. Unlike other traditional budget laptops, this one actually feels right on your lap. It's also great for people travelling in coach (economy) class on airlines. All of the expansion ports (ethernet, modem, USB, firewire, VGA, audio out) are lined up on the left side of the iBook. While this looks neat, it has caused problems for people using USB mice, since the cable's not long enough. The keyboard has a good feel and travel. The keys are full size, and are white with black text. Only time will tell whether the keys will rub off. The screen is beautiful, very bright and crisp. It's very sharp at 1024 x 786. While it's capable of supporting lower resolutions (640 x 480 and 800 x 600), the result is disappointingly blurry. Under the hood OS X's Aqua user interface is the best-looking, most elegant desktop I've seen on a personal computer since NEXTStep all those years ago. I booted into OS 9.2 just for kicks. The familiar desktop now looks clunky and ugly to me. Windows XP, and all of its previous iterations pale in comparison. After a week using of Mac OS X, my PC desktop's Windows 98 felt very difficult to use. Even with the standard 128MB RAM, Mac OS X is surprisingly snappy. However, when I added an extra 256MB RAM, there was a definite boost in performance. Mac OS X is built upon Darwin, an open source Unix (BSD) clone. It's refreshing to have a stable, powerful Unix OS pre-installed on a notebook computer. No more fiddling around trying to get Linux up on my PC! Apple bundles a lot of applications and utilities familiar to Unix users, including the Apache web server, perl and the venerable vi editor. Apple Developer tools is also included on the hard disk, but not on a separate CD. It includes AppleScript Studio, Project Builder, Interface Builder and gcc compiler. My advice is to look carefully at the applications available on your iBook when you first get it, before playing around or repartitioning it. Some of the bundled applications are not available on the restore CDs. It's all in the i's Apple bundles a good mix of home-grown and third party applications with the iBook, allowing you to get productive from the start. The triumvirate of iTunes, iMovies, iPhoto are all you need to get started with multimedia. These are powerful, easy to use applications in their own right. Rip. Mix. Burn. The first application I tried was iTunes. On startup, it offered to search hard disk for MP3s. I got a pleasant surprise, Apple has thoughtfully bundled a good selection of songs on the iBook. The sound from dual built-in speakers are a bit tinny, but just on par on the notebooks I am used to. To test CD ripping, I put in an old Miles Davis CD. iTunes connected to the Internet to access the CDDB service. Moments later the CD was recognised and the song titles appeared. I clicked on import. It took roughly 20 minutes to rip the 55 minute CD. At the same time I was browsing the web, with no noticeable loss in performance. Next tried I the CD burning function. Since Apple conveniently included a free blank CDR with the iBook, I decided to put it to good use. I selected about 11 songs, and clicked Burn. 10 minutes later, I tried the new CD out on my home stereo. It worked flawlessly first the time. Movies and Images This is my first DVD player ever. When i inserted my DVD, an icon appeared on my desktop and the DVD player automatically loaded on the Dock. It offered to change my region settings, and reminded me that I can only change a total of 5 times. I personally think that region-specific DVD players are a nuisance. Why does it matter where you buy your DVDs? In this day and age, I am as likely to buy a DVD from Los Angeles as Bangkok, Thailand. iPhoto came on a separate CD, so I had to install it. Not having a USB scanner, I loaded up a CD with my baby pictures. iPhoto has a simple user interface, which allows you to organise photos and do minor editing. Office Productivity As mentioned above, this article is written in Appleworks. An all-in-one program, you can create word processing, spreadsheet, database, drawing, painting and presentation. While a lot of people swear by Microsoft Office, Appleworks has 70-80% of the features that everyone uses. It's also file-compatible with MS Office formats (able to read and write Word and Excel natively), HTML, text, and even PDF! In fact, any application that can print on OS X, can save files as PDF. This means you no longer have to buy a very expensive copy of Adobe Acrobat if you just want to share a file or two. The Internet The iBook can connect to the Internet via modem, LAN or Airport (WiFi / 802.11b). With an Airport card installed, the iBook allows truly portable computing. My local Starbucks has a wireless hotspot which I frequently visit when I need a fast Internet connection. The little things It's clear that Apple puts a lot of attention to detail. There are features on the iBook that you can't quantify in terms of dollar value or productivity increase, but will make you smile every time. For example: - The white Apple logo on the lid lights up whenever the iBook is on. I didn't notice this until someone in a cafe pointed this out to me. - When you put the iBook to sleep, a glowing light appears near the cover latch. This is not an LED, but a soft, pulsing light that makes me think my iBook is purring in its sleep. - The iBook also wakes up instantly from sleep. A second after opening the lid, you're ready to work. This feels like i'm working on a PDA. - There are LED charge indicators on the battery. This enables you to see at a glance how much battery life you have left, without having to switch on the iBook. - The VGA adaptor and power cable come with little plastic covers to protect the connections. This is a nice touch, but I don't know how long it will be until I lose them! It's truly amazing how many things just work with the iBook. All in all, this makes a truly enjoyable computing experience - something I've never thought I'd say! While Apple's hardware offerings tend to be pricey, the iBook range represents tremendous value for the cost-conscious buyer. Recommended Yes
Stylish, capable, durable, great. Jan 06 '02 Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Pros looks great; excellent features; wakes from sleep instantly; good value Cons AC adapter cord doesn't wind up nicely; mouse plugs into left side. The Bottom Line Small, stylish, and highly capable, the iBook is a great buy. I'm very pleased with my 500MHz model, and the 600 MHz version is even better. Get one! Full Review I bought a "dual USB" (white) iBook soon after they came out. I also added 256MB of memory to the standard 128 MB, bringing the total to 384, a very worthwhile investment especially if you are planning on running OS X, which you should. (The iBook has one memory expansion slot, which can accept a 512MB low-profile RAM chip, so you can have up to 640 MB. Six months ago that was prohibitively expensive, but now you should seriously consider it). Although my wife is a long-time member of the Apple faithful, I've always used Windows and unix, and I pretty much ignored the Mac platform until Mac OS X came out last year. But the combination of a modern OS and some excellent hardware caught my attention and I decided to give Apple a try: I bought an iBook. The iBook ships (as of early 2002) with both OS 9 and OS X; I use OS X exclusively, and I think I've only booted into OS 9 twice, so I can't really comment on software issues (if any) related to OS 9. One thing that is hard to convey is how stylish the iBook is. I pulled it out last night to look up something on the web (wirelessly), and my dinner guests all exclaimed "ooh" and "wow"...just because of how the machine looks. The slim profile, bright high-resolution screen, and glossy/matte white color scheme make a striking impression. As I mentioned, I never owned a Mac before, but set-up was a breeze. In OS X, almost everything that can be adjusted is accessed through "System Preferences", which can be launched from the menu bar no matter what application you're running. All I set initially was the date and time, and a few options for mouse speed and such, and I was good to go. Even connecting to the internet was a breeze---I unplugged my ethernet cable from my computer at work and plugged it into the iBook, expecting to then have to set I.P. addresses, various options, etc., etc. Nope, it just worked. The iBook comes with a large trackpad and a single big button. It took a week or so to get used to the trackpad---at first I would occasionally let a thumb rest on it or near it, which would make the cursor jump around. I don't even think about it now, it just doesn't happen anymore. Before I got used to the trackpad, I bought a small USB mouse. The mouse that I bought has two buttons and a scroll wheel, but somewhat to my surprise it worked with no problem as soon as I plugged it in, with no need to install a driver or anything. Kudos to Apple for making this easy. (I no longer bother with the mouse, haven't used it in a few months). The mouse does raise one of the two issues that I listed in the "cons" for this computer---and it's really a quibble. The somewhat unusual hinge on the iBook, which lets the screen pivot an extra inch away from the user than a conventional hinge, prevents the back of the computer from being used for ports and plugs. Instead, Apple put all of the ports (two USB, one firewire, one video output, modem, and ethernet) on the left side of the computer, and the CD (or DVD) drive and power plug on the right side. That means that if you want to use the mouse with your right hand, you have to loop the mouse cord around behind the computer, which is inconvenient if you have a short-ish mouse cord and can occasionally make the cord interfere with the CD tray, although the level of "inconvenience" this causes is so minor that it's barely worth mentioning. The keyboard took a little getting used to: it's perfectly flat and the keys are very slim. At first I used to plug in a friend's spare USB keyboard, which had a normal slight angle to it, and conventional keys. Now, though, I'm so used to the iBook's keyboard that I actually prefer it, or maybe I just don't care...at any rate it doesn't bother me. When I bought my iBook, I also got an "airport" card for about $100. "Airport" is Apple's word for a wireless standard that can also be used by Windows machines. Having the card doesn't do you any good, of course, unless you also have a wireless network of some kind (either another computer with an Airport card, or, much better, a base station). Rather than buy Apple's base station, my wife and I spent about the same amount for a wireless web router. That did take a bit of configuring---keying in some addresses and such, following the directions from our internet service provider---but it only took about 20 minutes. I highly recommend setting up a wireless network in your home, whatever kind of laptop you buy: it has changed my usage habits in ways I would not have expected, and I love it. Combined with the fact that the iBook wakes from sleep instantly (or within three seconds, anyway), it makes the computer useful much more often than you'd think. For example, if my wife and I are eating dinner and are thinking about seeing a movie, I just grab the iBook, open it up, and I can search for movies and times. I often check email (in about 20 seconds) just before leaving the house so I know what to expect when I get in to work. I can lie in bed and send email at night. And so on. Now, we finally get to the only thing that I _don't_ like about the iBook...the only thing that seems like a design oversight. And that issue is...the cool-looking mushroom-shaped AC adapter has a nicely designed storage slot where you can wind up the DC part of the cord (the part from the adapter to the computer), but there's nothing much you can do with the five-foot-long AC cord (from the wall socket to the adapter). I always try to kind of wind it around the base of the "mushroom", but the cord ends up just flopping around loose. A few things I have appreciated about the iBook: 1) Wireless home network is great to use; 2) Good battery life (about 3.5 hours in my experience) is enough to keep my occupied on most of my plane flights; 3) On a recent cross-country flight I rented a DVD movie in the airport terminal, then mailed it back when I got to my destination...is this a great country, or what; 4) iBook is very durable, I toss it in my knapsack or stick it in a barely-padded carry bag without a worry; 5) I've loaded about four hours of music onto my iBook, using iTunes, which is great during plane flights. And finally, a few words about OS X. I know that some long-time Mac users don't like the new operating system...I don't understand all of the issues, not having been a Mac user before, but I do know that OS X is the reason that I decided to give Apple a try. I'm a long-time unix user, and I use some unix tools on my iBook, and some unix-derived software. I have also come to like some of Apple's software (like iTunes and their Mail application), and I bought a couple of Mac games too. It's a great operating system. Sure, there are a few user interface kinks to work out (for instance, although the famous "dock" has its heart in the right place, it just doesn't work, and I have replaced it with a shareware replacement called Dragthing, which isn't perfect either), but overall it's the best OS out there. I have been very, very happy with my iBook. Recommended Yes
I switched! (the media hype got to me) Aug 28 '02 (Updated Aug 28 '02) Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Smooth design, OSX, you can run linux apps on it, compact and light Cons Bad battery compartment design, the help is horrible The Bottom Line An excellent choice for anyone that is tired of Windows, afraid of Linux, or just wants a laptop that works. Full Review Make the switch Okay, I didn't totally switch. I still use my 2 PCs for work and play, but now I have a Mac to learn on and travel with. My old IBM ThinkPad finally crapped out, and I decided to take the plunge in the world of Apple. OS X - Two thumbs up! I had never considered owning a Mac. I thought MacOS was kinda neat looking, but slow and clunky compared to Linux or even the newer iterations of Windows. Plus, I was intimidated by the artsy-savant mystique surrounding the Macintosh line. I'm a Linux and Unix hobbyist (see some of my other reviews). When I heard that OS X would run on a kernel based on Unix, and still look pretty, I was hooked. The latest updated version of the OS runs fast, and so far, hasn't crashed on me. That's a bold statement, because I like to run lots of programs at the same time and push the machine to it's limits. So far, so good in the system stability category. The interface is very nice, with lots of eye candy. It's highly customizable and fairly easy to navigate. Since I'd never really used MacOS in the past, I was quite confused for a few days. Now I'm doing just great, having figured out where everything is, and how to make system adjustments. System as tested by me: 700mhz G3 256Mb RAM Combo Drive (DVD+CDRW) 12.1" LCD 20Gb HD What I liked about this machine: First of all, this laptop looks so damn cool. It just begs for attention. I'm glad that Apple didn't make the new iBooks in childish (but very fun) colors like the first generation. You could use this machine for professional purposes, and have people still take you seriously. Second, it's really amazing how small and light this thing is. No matter how many times I read the specs online, I still wasn't prepared for the ultra-compact size and feather-light weight. It's very travel friendly. (I can't wait to take mine on a business trip that's coming up soon. Now I can watch a movie on the plane!) What really blew my mind (As if everything else wasn't enough) was Apple's extreme attention to detail. For example, when the iBook is on and you lower the screen into it's locked position, the machine goes to sleep. Nothing new about that, right? Well, while asleep, the iBook shows you that it's on, but asleep via a small light on the front that slowly pulsates (as if it were breathing). It's that kind of detail that makes Apple hardware the top dog. There are lots of details I could share, but I don't want to ruin it for you. Discovering them is half the fun! The battery operates for about 4 hours during regular use. When watching DVDs, it's more like 3.25 hours. Not too shabby. It takes about 5.5 hours to completely recharge from zero. I did notice that turning the machine off and on (or rebooting - same thing) zapped 3% of the battery every time. And for some reason, MS Office V.X keeps the processor running at about 10% while it's the active application. This will make a big impact on the battery life if you plan on using Office a good bit while traveling. The software bundled with the iBook is quite comprehensive. I haven't really used most of it very much, with the exception of iTunes. The AppleWorks suite is similar to MS Works, but more robust. There are lots of cool utilities included as well, including a CPU monitor, which is one of my favorites. iTunes is a good program for listening to and cataloging music files, but I still think WinAmp is better. (Nullsoft has just released an alpha version of WinAmp for OS X.) What I didn't like: There's not a whole lot in this category, but here it is - The battery compartment is poorly designed. It's too easy for it to come loose, and it doesn't fit flush with the body of the laptop. I've tried to make it fit snug several times, and I just can't do it. The battery is released by turning a slot-type screw (you can use a coin for this). I noticed that this screw tends to loosen itself over time. This could be a bad thing if the batter popped out while you were traveling. The help is dismally scant. There were several questions I had that were completely unanswered by the help system. Luckily, Apple has a very good help section on their website. The manual that came with the iBook was also quite lacking. It was very aesthetically pleasing, but it really doesn't tell you how to do much. There is no manual for OS X either. I expected a much better documentation from Apple. All the I/O ports are on the left side. This is great for southpaws, but for the rest of us right handed folks it's an annoyance. When using a mouse, I have to either run the cord underneath or around the back, and this shortens the available cord to work with. I think it would have been better to have them on the back, as this would allow easy use for left or right handed people. It's not a big deal, but slightly annoying sometimes. The speakers don't have enough power for watching DVDs. This is really just a nitpick. Even in a quiet room, the speakers are not loud enough to really enjoy a movie. If you are going to watch a movie with the iBook, make sure you have headphones or externally powered speakers. Overall I highly recommend the iBook for work or play. It can handle a lot multi-tasking business apps, as well as playing music and games, and watching movies. I would suggest, however, that you get at least 256Mb of RAM for optimum performance. You can never have too much RAM. Even techno geeks can get a lot of use out of the iBook. With it's Unix compatibility and X-term (looking) console with tcsh or bash shell, you can do a lot of geeky configuration or even compile apps to run natively. Recommended Yes
A Small Wonder: Apple's New iBook Toasts the Competition Jan 02 '02 Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Fast processor, great bundled software, small, easy to transport package, very versatile and user-friendly Cons Does not have the computer world acceptance the PC does The Bottom Line The iBook is a treasure. Don't buy a PC for the sake of fitting in. Instead, look into this little Mac and Think Different. Full Review Good things come in small packages. This cliché is a necessary element in reviewing the new iBook 600mhz. With its sleek gray-white chassis, zippy 100mhz front-side bus, and light sub-five pound weight, it is a wonder any portable computer advocate would not consider purchasing this fun yet serious laptop computer. In a simple phrase, the new iBook is a small wonder. I’ll be the first to admit it. Over the last ten years, I have been a PC guy. You know our breed. We salivate at the hint of a new Windows release, lovingly sigh at the rumor of a new upgrade to MS Office, and dream of the new toys Bill Gates has on his agenda. Ps’s, therefore, are the be all and end all of our productive lives. Recently, however, I’ve had an epiphany – the discovery of the newer, more improved iBook. There are a few things about the iBook that I find irritating. The convenience of a floppy drive, for instance, is something I sorely miss. That Macintosh is a successful producer of powerful operating systems and productive software proves their products are widely accepted by techies and the common simple surfers. But the availability of compatible software and hardware is just not as prevalent as with PC’s. Recently, I have been in the market for a cheap yet reliable digital camera. Most cameras in this category, however, are only PC compatible -- I have to search for a camera that is "Mac-Friendly." Why do we Mac-addicted consumers have to suffer this qualm while the billions of PC users can have their cake and eat it too? As frustrating as it may seem, though, the pros far outweigh the cons of the iBook. Every time I look at the closed chassis of my iBook, I get a sense of pleasure – the pleasure of knowing I own a fast and powerful machine capable of completing all my productive and entertaining tasks. The G3 600Mhz processor is fast. I run several productivity and educational programs along with the large array of stock software that Apple ships with the iBook (see www.apple.com for a full list of the software). With every task, the computer runs and executes with smooth precision – quickly, accurately, and without a stutter. The iBook comes standard with 128MB of RAM installed. This is plenty of RAM for most applications you would want to run. However, there is an empty memory bay that is not only easy to get to, but it is easy to insert a stick of PC100 RAM up to 512MB into the slot. I had an old stick of 64MB lying around from an old laptop, so I put it in, powered up, and was running faster than before in less than five minutes – it was that easy. The 192MB of RAM makes every task faster. The iBook comes loaded with MAC OS 9.2 and MAC OS 10.1. You can choose to run either OS, but OS X limits the software you can run in the OS X environment. The neat thing, however, is that OS X goes into "Classic" mode when you are running a non-OS X application, thus allowing you to run all of your old programs. You will need more RAM than the standard 128 to run OS X efficiently; with 192MB of RAM, it runs much better, jumping from application to application with smoothness and ease. With 256MB of RAM, this thing would probably break the sound barrier. Other than looks and speed, the iBook has much more to offer. On the left side of the keyboard and chassis, you find a neat array of plug in adapters. There is a high-speed Firewire port for those add-ons such as additional hard drives, scanners, digital camcorders, or any hardware devices that use Firewire. In addition, there are two USB ports, a video/audio out port, external monitor port, Ethernet, and modem connection. The iBook leaves no room for limits. If you can connect it, the iBook can accept it. The 12.1" active matrix screen is something most spoiled large-screen junkies wine about. That the iBook’s resolution goes up to 1024x768 allows the user full detail and millions of colors. The screen, although small at first glance, is really all you need to view the web, produce documents and presentations, and even watch you favorite DVD. Its compactness is a virtue – the iBook is kept small in scale and light in weight. When selecting my iBook, I had some decisions to make. Did I want a 30G hard drive or something smaller? Did I want a DVD, CD/RW, CD-ROM, or a combo CD/RW-DVD drive? I opted for the latter, along with a 20G hard drive -- plenty of storage with the ability to watch DVDs and burn my favorite tunes onto a CD-R disc. The drives work beautifully – DVDs play without a stutter, and with the ATI 128 video card and 8MB of video RAM, the movies don’t stutter or skip. A computer isn’t a machine of productivity and entertainment without a wide variety of bundled software. The iBook is no exception. With everything from Appleworks for productivity to Nanosaur and Bugdom for gaming, the iBook packs plenty of productive punch and easy entertainment. The only thing I purchased afterward was the Apple Teacher Productivity Kit. As an educator, I liked the idea of having a strong array of educationally centered software. The cost was minimal, but the software’s productivity was almost priceless. My experience with the Apple website and the purchase of my iBook was flawless. I researched, customized, financed, and tracked my order entirely through their site. I have yet to find a company with such a customer-friendly site. I guess that is what you get from a company that produces the user-friendliest computers in the world. What more can I say? As I write this Epinion, I sit in awe and perfect comfort with my iBook in my lap. It is just one of those fate-oriented decisions – you decide, order, and keep your fingers crossed that you made the right move. So far, purchasing the iBook is one of the best recent moves I have made. Even my wife doesn’t complain. To ensure safety, however, I bought her an iMac. That is another story in a different review. Recommended Yes
Best computer I have ever owned Nov 22 '02 Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros fast, light, long-lasting battery, bright display, stable, beautiful to look at. Cons Little bit of trouble integrating with Windows network. The Bottom Line Using the iBook has been a dream, and after three weeks I now consider it the best computer I have ever owned. I can't imagine working without it now. Full Review This iBook is my first Mac. I come to it from the world of Intel/Linux, but I do use an iMac at work so this wasn’t much of a switch in the sense that I was quite familiar with the OS and the Mac hardware in general. The fact that the iBook runs OS X Jaguar also played a part in my decision to move to the Mac. Having used Windows 3.1 through XP, Mac 8.6 through 9.2, every distribution of Linux you can think of, as well as Sun Solaris and two flavors of BSD, I believe that OS X is one of the strongest, most stable, most usable operating systems I’ve ever encountered. Like almost everyone who buys a Mac for the first time, I took a lot of pleasure from the experience of opening the box and unpacking it. This aspect of the Mac experience caught me completely by surprise. I’ve never experienced it before, and I’ve bought a number of new computers since the mid-1980s. There really is no way to explain this except to say that the whole package is so well designed, so well put together, that even pulling out the power-adapter gave me a bit of a thrill. Go figure! Starting up the iBook for the first time was also a good experience, and within a couple of minutes I had OS X up and running. If you’re thinking of switching to Mac, or have never used a notebook computer before, there are probably a few things on your mind. I’ll try to cover the things I was concerned about before I switched. Speed — move from a mightily endowed 1.3 Gigahertz PC to a 700 Megahertz Mac? Battery life — I’ve only owned used laptops before, where the batteries were basically expired, so I had no idea what to expect in this regard. Relatively small 12.1 inch screen — Again, my PC has a 17 inch monitor, so I was a bit worried. Compatibility with Windows — I don’t use Windows much, but the rest of my family does, and I have to use a printer that’s connected to a Windows machine. I’ll address those issues one at a time. Speed. I’m not a Megahertz junky. To be honest, I can’t tell much difference between my 400 MHz PII, my 1.3 Gigahertz AMD Duron, or my friend’s 1.7 Gigahertz Athlon. In my experience, factors other than the CPU make a huge difference to the computing experience. For example, my 400 MHz PII rocked with a Voodoo 3 2000 video card. My 1.3 GHz machine did not seem to perform nearly as well on some applications, even though it had a 64 MB GEforce video card. Truthfully, on everyday applications like WordPerfect or Internet Explorer, I never noticed much difference at all. So the idea of buying a brand new iBook at 700 MHz, about half the speed of my AMD machine, didn’t bother me at all. The iBook performs well. CPU speed is not an issue. Battery Life — From full charge, using the machine constantly for writing, email and Web browsing, I get between 4.5 and 5 hours out of the battery, which is very impressive in my opinion. That means I can generally work through a whole evening or an afternoon without worrying about plugging the machine in. This is an extremely liberating experience for a long-time desktop PC user. To be able to compute anywhere! The longer battery life is possible because the iBook steps back its processor to 400 MHz speed while on battery only. Don’t worry, you can have it work at top speed all the time if you want, but if long battery life between charges is important to you, let the iBook decide automatically how it will behave. Small screen — Yes, it’s smaller than a desktop monitor, but it has never been an issue for me. I did look at the iBook with the larger screen (14.1) inch, but decided against it, not because of the cost (it was only a couple of hundred dollars difference), but because the darned thing felt flimsy! The smaller iBook with the 12.1 inch screen felt rock steady. No bendiness. It just felt... good. Solid. And the 1024-768 resolution is ample for my needs. I have used an older iBook at work with a resolution of 800-600, and this is far superior. Windows compatibility — This is where the iBook had a few problems for me. For all the hype of "It just works" and "Start working out of the box" there was an inordinate amount of tweaking to do to get the iBook to play nicely with my home PC network. Oh, Jaguar detected the other Windows shares without a problem; swapping files was not the issue. The problem was printers. My home network shared an older NEC Silentwriter2 290 Postscript printer hooked up via parallel port. The first problem arose because the iBook could not detect the printer shares at all on the Windows network. After I solved that problem working in terminal to adjust the Samba configuration, I learned that I could not print to the Silentwriter at all because it is a Postscript Level I printer. Jaguar can print only to Postscript Level II and III compatible printers. After much research, I learned about some Unix applications that could help (Gimp-Print and Ghostscript), and after installing them managed to share the printer without a problem. If I had not had a lot of experience with Linux and Unix, however, I would not have attempted this and would have ended up buying a USB printer to hook up directly to the iBook. Add-ons. I guess I must have been feeling particularly flush the day I bought my iBook, because I bumped the RAM up to 384 MB, purchased the 3-year AppleCare protection plan, as well as an AirPort Base Station and Airport Card. It’s been close to a month since I purchased my iBook, and I have not regretted the purchase even once. I have not yet used the AppleCare plan, and hope never to have to. The Airport and wireless networking, on the other hand, are now such an integral part of the way I compute that I could never go back to hard-wired computing! The Airport, by the way, integrated seamlessly with the Windows network. Three short postscripts. I have two Linux systems in the house acting as servers — one as a router/firewall for the Lan, the other as a file server. I ended up switching the Silentwriter to the Linux server and it is shared without problem by all systems in the house; I put an Epson C60 on the Windows box for the kids to do their colour printing. Both machines work well over the wireless network for the iBook, and both work well for the Windows machines. For those new to OS X, I’m sorry to say that the documentation that comes with the iBook is virtually useless. I ended up purchasing OS X Jaguar — The Missing Manual, which at $30 was a good investment. I’d recommend it highly to anybody new to Mac or to OS X. For Linux/Unix users, the terminal and shell will prove familiar territory, but the GUI can be a challenge if you’re not accustomed to it. I don’t blame long-time Mac users for being uncertain about switching to OS X. Lastly, something of interest to those who are weighing whether to purchase from Apple directly, or from an authorized reseller. Exactly four days after I purchased my 700 MHz iBook, Apple released the next generation, 800 MHz iBook. These look the same, but have a little more juice on both the CPU and video areas. What really shocked me, however, was that the price of the old iBook dropped by about $300 Canadian across the board! I visited the Apple site and learned that Apple had a price protection policy in effect for 10 days after an order is placed. I wasn’t sure that the reseller would honor the policy. I phoned them, they checked into it, and called back a short while later to inform me that they’d refund the difference. I told them I’d rather have a copy of Microsoft Office v. X instead, and they agreed, which was fine with both of us, I’m sure. All in all, I was very impressed with the service I received from the reseller. The salesman demonstrated good knowledge of the product and, even better, I got to play on the iBooks before deciding which one I wanted. Recommended Yes
Ideal for students Sep 16 '02 Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 4.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Small size, mobility, decent power for the price Cons Lighter than most, but still heavy The Bottom Line Buy. Students will love the mobility and power iBook has to offer, unless you're a serious photoshop junky or a movie maker (then go for Titanium G4.) Full Review The Apple iBook has become more professional looking after they discontinued the fruit-colored line, which was both childish and weak. With the recent iBook line you get Apple's legendary sleek design with enough power to satisfy most users. Basic I say "enough" because if you're a superuser I'd recommend the G4 Titanium instead (which I think is too large to be carried around). The iBook is smaller than a regular sized binder and can be carried with one hand without much difficulty. It does not feature the handle that the old iBooks had, but most people probably don't mind. The ports are on the left side of the keyboard while the cd-drive and the power plug goes on the right. The left-handed ports was only a problem when I wished to plug my iMac mouse into it for graphical applications, and my mouse cord wasn't long enough. From the left, there's the 56k modem port, ethernet port, firewire, and two USB ports with another port for the monitor cable which comes with the iBook. Then there's the headphone jack... The headphone jack has both audio and video uses, so you will definitely hear a good deal of static if you're using the headphones. As I joke around with my friends, I can often "hear" my enemies before I actually see them on certain computer games. Keyboard Very smooth typing on white keys that can be detached from the main body in order to install stuff into the motherboard. The control and options key are only on the left side, which may pose problems for users used to that configuration. There's also the "fn" key that are needed for certain functions. Starting from the F1 key to the F6, you can activate with the "fn" key: Dimmer, Brighter (screen), mute, softer, louder (volume), and num lock keys. At times there will be a delay activating some of these keys but they work nicely. After much prolonged use, however, I've noticed that changing my volume causes this annoying static-y chirp to occur. Got used to it but... The F12 key is used to eject what's in the CD drive. CD Drive I have the CD-RW/DVD drive. The DVDs have played nicely thus far, and I've burned CDs many times. The speed of the burning, however, is only 4X, which is tolerable, but still lacking compared to many of the super-speed burners out there. I've often heard of the problems concerning combo drives, but I haven't had much difficulties with it except: While I'm burning a CD with a program such as iTunes, I noticed that turning on/off my halogen lamp in the same room causes the CD burn to abort because of certain interferences caused by my action. Lost many CDs until I found out what was causing the abortions, but CDs are pretty cheap anyways. Now only if time were cheap. And ya, there have been certain instances where I just simply could NOT burn files, but that could be avoided by using programs such as Roxio's Toast instead of the burning software that is built into the system. The CD drive is pretty noisy. Trackpad First trackpad I've used so it took quite a bit to get used to. If you're into gaming and graphics, you're better off purchasing an auxiliary mouse, for the pad is inadequate for either. Otherwise it functions well. Some other stuff: The apple logo on the top of the iBook lights up when you turn it on, and it changes according to how bright/dim your monitor is. Turns off when iBook is off or sleeping. When the iBook is sleeping, the little light at the bottom of the keyboard pulsates slowly, much like the G4 towers. Sleeps when you simply close the monitor, wakes when you open it up again. Speaker Decent, especially when you see that there are PCs out there who require these things called "sound cards" to enable sound, a concept unknown to Mac users. It's better than nothing, but if you need the hits of a large bass system for your heavy duty rap music, get yourself those spiffy speakers by Apple. Maintenance The top beautiful cover of the iBook is scratched up due to my carrying it in the laptop bag with insufficient protection. Be careful with your machines, you'll regret not having taken care of your precious baby. Noise of computer: Unless the computer is sleeping or shut down, it makes a good deal of CPU noise. From what I've read, Apple could not take noise into consideration while trying to fit all the components into such small a space. It's not life threatening. After enough inactivity the hard disk can also spin down and monitor can dim, causing the noise level to cease. Well the problem I'm noticing at the moment is all this gunk and hair that got trapped beneathe the keys on the keyboard which, upon close examination, looks quite irritating. Being white keys and all, the pile up of dust is more visible than on other machines. You can detach the keyboard and see what you can do with it, so far I'm not sure how I'm going to go about cleaning this. I've read at Apple website that you should use compressed air of some sort. Support Which brings up the next point. I've owned Macs since the 6100/66 (the PowerMac with the 66mhz processor) and also own a bondi blue iMac, a G4 tower, along with this iBook which I use on a daily basis. Thus far I've NEVER had to contact the Apple support phone line. I'm proud of the fact that I was able to fix 90% of my problems using the Apple Guide included in the system or the manuals that came with the computer. Sure, I've read virtually any and all Troubleshooting book on the Mac OS out there (until the release of OS X) but the Mac is nothing like the PC. None of that random blue screen that throws away all your work for no reason. Everything is intuitive! I'm a mac loyalist and damn proud of it. With good reason too. Especially with the OS X, which is the most stable OS I know. Individual programs have frozen up on me on some really long task, which caused me to force quit the application, but it's never crashed on me as a whole (except one really weird instance, but I overlook it). OS X is truly a beauty, and even my PC friends have to remark on how "cool" the dock looks. If nothing else, the Apple support website and forums are enough to solve ANY other problems you may have. Good thing with the Apple products is that unlike PCs where different components come from different manufacturers, most of what you'll use are Apple-made and they can provide you with all the support you need. Ruggedness Shame on me, but I have first-handedly tested the ruggedness of this machine. Well, simply by the looks you can deduce the toughness of the machine as well. But there was one instance where I, trying to carry the iBook with one slippery hand, happened to drop it onto hard concrete floor from about knee height. No visible scratches or damages to the system (except the popping out of the CD drive; easily fixed by pushing it back in). Had some emotional damage to myself as an owner... bad owner. I also carry the iBook in a laptop bag in which I carry other books and such, but often I (doh) forget I have a laptop in it and toss the bag onto some location. When at last I realize I have a 1600dollar machine in there I yell "crap" and check the condition of the iBook to see that everything's still intact (besides the occassional popping out of a CD drive). SYSTEM maintenance As a OS 7.5-9 user I've used Disk First Aid on a regular basis to rid the system of any evilness, but with the OS X that's not required. Upon startup the system automatically runs the First Aid program. Brawn My iBook has replaced my iMac as THE computer I use daily. The iMac is sitting there as slowly I take away its peripheral devices and hook them up to my iBook. Not the acclaimed G4 processor, but this will do for many things. I've made movies with the included iMovie, I've made lots of webpages using Dreamweaver and Fireworks, I watch DVD movies, I do basically all that you can do with a computer and have had no problem witht the power it offers. But from what I hear, the OS X interface is considerably faster on the G4 processor, and although I personally don't see much to complain about, it's recommended to use OS X on a G4. Recommended Yes
My Favorite Computer Jul 04 '02 (Updated Jul 04 '02) Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Looks good, fast enough for everyday computing, great screen, good tech support. Cons Lack of PC Card slots The Bottom Line This laptop gets the job done in style -- highly recommended. Full Review I purchased my iBook (600MHz Dual USB) in January 2002, and I think it's pretty close to the best computer purchase I've ever made. I use it for everything, and I've found it's able to do everything I need it to do -- web development, photo editing, school work, and whatever else comes down the pipe line. The only upgrades I've given it are an Airport card and an extra 256MB of RAM (for a total of 384MB installed). The RAM is definitely needed for anyone who wants to do anything more substantial than word processing, and is especially nice when running OS X. I highly recommend buying RAM from a third party reseller, not from an Apple store (online or otherwise) -- you'll save a considerable amount of money. The iBook takes standard PC100 SO-DIMMs, just like PC laptops, so you can find the chips pretty much anywhere. Installation is a cinch, with graphical instructions located under the keyboard. The Airport card works flawlessly, and I often spend lazy afternoons surfing public wireless networks while sipping espresso in cafes downtown. The only potential downside is that people will stop to look at your laptop and ask you questions about it -- the iBook is a head turner. One major advantage the iBook has over other notebooks is that the Airport antenna is built into screen of the machine. I'm able to get better reception than most other systems I've tested this one against (including the original iBook, and Lucent PC Cards). I spend a considerable amount of time doing things that are somewhat CPU intensive: working with Photoshop, doing database/system/web programming, and other such things. I'm quite pleased with the performance, although it would be nice to have a little extra oomph for those large Photoshop files, and it wouldn't hurt to give the graphics chip a little boost. However, considering the laptop only cost a bit over $1500, I really can't complain. It's definitely got a whole lot of bang for the buck. One place where the iBook really shines is battery life. With the screen turned down low, and the CPU throttled (in OSX 10.1.5), I can easily spend five hours at the library writing papers before the battery goes dead. One really cool feature is that I can check the battery level while the machine is folded up and asleep -- the battery has a button and 4 status lights that can give you a rough idea of how much juice is left. I've been VERY happy with the general stability of this machine. OS X and the iBook work rather well together, and it's not uncommon for my laptop to go several weeks between reboots, and most of the time that's only because I've downloaded system updates that require a reboot. I've never had a program crash so hard the machine needed to be reset, and I've only had one instance of the machine not waking up from sleep (which was cured by unplugging and replugging the Ethernet connection). The only big problem I could see someone having is the lack of PC Card slots. However, considering that the laptop has built in 100Mb Ethernet, 56k modem, 2 USB ports, 1 Firewire port, and an optional internal Airport card, I've never had a need for a PC Card slot. All things considered, I love my iBook. It's a fantastic little computer that gets the job done, and looks good doing it. Highly recommended to anyone who doesn't need a serious amount of horsepower, or PC Card slots -- and for those who do, check out the G4 Powerbook! Recommended Yes
This apple is solid to the core Nov 25 '02 (Updated Dec 06 '02) Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros New user interface(OSX) based on UNIX, attractive and durable design Cons Should have more memory and an owner's manual The Bottom Line Simple to use and elegant this computer is for you. With a brand new operating system built from the ground up, I can only see positive things for this company. Full Review I was tossed back and forth from Bill Gate's and Steve Job's. Where and what is the future of the operating systems? Will software companies and those who provide peripherials for computer continue to support Apple? I'm convinced that the answer is unequivacally, yes. This conclusion was based on Macintosh's fairly new operating system OSX. When Steve Jobs was hired back by Apple he brought many of his ideas his formulated at NeXT to Apple. One of them was a system based on the rock solid Unix code. The most secure language in the world. It is virtually crash-proof. If he would of stopped there it would have been good, but he went further. He developed Quartz graphics(the beautiful desktop you see when booted), multi-threading, pre-emptive multi-tasking, and memory allocation/ protection. I'll explain these in a minute. On top of the operation system, which makes everything on your Mac run just a little better and smooth than previous systems, the iBook has many nice cosmetic and practical functions. Before I describe what I feel are some of the more prominent and noble features, let me recommend the iBook primarily to the consumer and not the professional. While it can run programs like Photoshop that require more processing power to render it's effects, it will dissapoint if you want peak performance from a laptop. Buy a powerbook instead. But, if you want a down-to-earth laptop with durability and modest features then this one's for you. 'Nuff said! Ok, the features: Practical OSX operating system based on UNIX(more on this later) DVD/ CD-RW combo drive: If you are going to buy one these laptops, go all the way and get the combo drive. It will cost a few hundred more than the base model, but you will get better graphics, more harddrive and of course, the drive unit itself. You will be beating yourself over the head many times over if you don't because these drives work beautifully and are integrated to function seamlessly with some of Apple's exclusive bundled software(i.e., iTunes) included free with your system. 12.1" TFT display: This may seem like a small screen if you compare it to it's Window's cousin across the street, but for most of us it suits just fine. This was one of features that almost drew me away from the iBook, but there is a 14" iBook available for those who really need it, but keep in mind that you will be adding a couple pounds. And this weight can really add up on your business trips or to and fro the office. Poly-carbonate plastic case: Yes folks, this is the same material used in bullet-proof glass. It's a no-brainer that this is what you want to buy your child who seems to be able to break anything. In fact, I've heard stories that these laptops have been run over by the family car and still survived, but I don't know if it's true. Floating Hardrive: The harddrive is mounted on special rubber shock absorbers. This will assure your data isn't lost or corrupted by the daily grind. All the necessary ports to talk and connect with other goodies, such as digital cameras and camcorders, printers, cable modems and dial-up , networks, scanners, headphones and even your TV set(optional adapter required.) Built-in microphone for voice command or recording. Free software(more on this later) Cosmetic Nifty little hook that magnetically secure to latch in base next to the mouse pad. When the lid is open the latch hides neatly into it's cubby-hole. The Apple logo is lit up on the outside of the case and Apple finally designed it right-side up rather than upside down as on the colorful clamshell models of yesteryear. There's a little button on the battery case that when pressed will tell you the status of it's charge. There are four little light, so you can only tell it's charge in quarters, but it's plenty handy in a cinch. Easy access to the airport card and memory holders. Just a turn of the screw and unhook two plastic retaining clips on either side of the upper keyboard. It's so simple to upgrade memory and Apple shows you how in graphic splendor. OK, now that I describe some of the obvious features of the iBook, I will delve into it's heart. That is the operating system itself. For those user who are use to the previous OS 9 or lower before, you must start from scratch. Apple has totally designed OSX from the ground up. You will still see a components that will remind you of your version, for example the tiny apple in the upper left-hand corner of the desktop, but many of the rules have change and in just about every instance for the better. I'm sorry to be the bearer of bad news for you old user, but Apple basically want's you to trade in some of those old computers you've been holding onto for so long. Yes, Apple computer are so well built that many people haven't had to replace them for years. They just keep running and this presented Apple with the dilemma of losing their market share. Thank goodness for OSX with it's shiny aqua interface brought to us by quartz an amazing new technology that gives us the pretty graphics, anti-aliased lettering and the capability to turn any document into a pdf file to share with any computer anywhere. An example of Quartz would be when you move a window around on the desktop of OSX, you see a the window totally composed and not just an outline as you would see in OS9 for instance. The only downside of Quartz is that it's processor intensive and slows down the computer. Now a little about the other important components of OSX: Multi-threading and Premptive multi-tasking. With certain OSX programs, multi-threading gives you the ability to do more than one thing at a time. This feature will save you time. Premptive multi-tasking is even better because OSX assigns the necessary amount of processing power to the program at hand. No one program can hog more than it's share of the processor so you have a system that is more stable. Another neat feature of OSX that older users can appreciate it that memory is allocated and no longer fixed. The user no longer has to tell the computer how much a particular program should have, it's done automatically now creating a much more stable environment. The last major feature is memory protection. Simply put, if a particular program crashes you longer have to boot back up. The RAM isn't affected as in previous operating systems and you can go on using the computer as if nothing happened. All these feature added up give you greater reliablity, stability and ease of use. So much is going on behind the scenes in OSX, but this is deliberately done so to make it easier for you. There are still ways to get into the guts of the operating system, but why would you want to do that when you have such a simple and elegant interface to make your computing so enjoyable? That's the aim of OSX, so you might as well take advantage of it. The programs that come bundled are: iTunes: A program to organize your digital music. You can download off the internet and add songs to your library or you can import your CD collection. If you have a CD burner, you can make copies of CDs. You can make playlists, use an equalizer and even download music to Apple's own brand of MP3 player. iPhoto: Great and simple program for the digital photo enthusiast. It offers five areas in the program: Import, Organize, Edit, Book and Share. Let me just go over the highlights. OSX will recognize most camera types and automatically import when you connect it to the camera. You can also import in traditional ways. You can organize your photos by giving them tags and then recalling them later. The editing is fairly simple, but powerful enough to most of things you want. There's red-eye reduction and cropping functions. Depending on the version of iPhoto you have, you can also adjust brightness and contrast. There are also constrains so you picture will print in the correct format. This is useful if you don't want any of your picture cut off when you send it to the printer. Black and white and rotation is also offered. The Book section allows you to create an album that will later be sent to the Share section which will connect you to the internet where you can order a beautiful twenty page linen-bound book of your favorite vacation or perhaps family reunion. There are many formats to chose for your book. In the Share section, you can also print, although this option is available in any section, and you can order prints from Kodak. Finally, you can also create your homepage or slide show here. The last important piece of software that Apple wants you to use is called iMovie. To be honest with you, I have used this program far and few between because I don't have a digital camcorder. Comparing it to some of the other importing/ editing/ exporting programs out there (i.e., Sony's movie shaker,) this ones by far simpler and more elegant. It simply look nice. There are three areas to import and edit sound, so you can add a soundtrack, your voice and the track that was imported with the video. I've seen an actual demonstration of this and was amazed with the quality of the finished product. You can make a very professional piece of work with this program. There are effects such as floating titles, cross-fades and fadeouts that give your video that special touch. And the clincher is that it's easy to use like all the i software. Well, my friends, that's just an overview of this amazing laptop. There's so much more to it than I've delved into, but I wanted to give you my point of view and I hope it was helpful. One thing that I wanted to add was for those of you who are new to Apple computers, don't be thrown off by the operation system. You can still share files with your friends who use Window. You can still email them and send them your pictures. You can even network with Windows systems. If you have a lot of programs that are windows based, you can buy an emulator that will set window up on you Mac. There really is no limitation to buying a Macintosh and there are actually a lot of advantages. Please don't let faulty logic or thinking prevent you from considering one. Once you do buy one, and if you want further guidance in how it works and how to operate it more efficiently, I would recommend the book, "MacOSX: The Missing Manual/ The Book That Should Have Been In The Box," by David Pogue. Through his book I was able to write a more accurate review. And his book will guide you through unfamiliar territory with a sense of humor. Good Luck on your purchases. Solo. Update: Good news for iBook purchasers. Apple has just reduced the price of this model and added more power. They stuck a new G3 Power PC processor with 800 mhz along with thirty GB harddrive all for two hundred less than my posted price. Hmmm, i wonder if I wait another three months. Buy an iPod or Airport setup with the money you save. Or, use it toward the Gold Standard service called AppleCare(details on their site.) Also, you might find some bargains on the old model at retail stores. Hurry though, because they close out fast. I just had an encounter with their service today and I am pleased to say it went well. I only had to hear their recorded voice say, All technicians are busy...," five or six times and actually enjoyed the Peter Gabriel song. The tech was patient and thorough. He knew his stuff and had my baby working in thirty minutes. Bravo, Apple. Have your serial number and backup disks ready when you need help. Solo. P.S.: Visit my website in the near future. I'll be adding some info about this computer soon. Recommended Yes
iBook the best consumer laptop Dec 03 '02 Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Size, weight, price, looks and OS X Cons Limited user upgrades The Bottom Line For most home users this is a nice balance of price and features. Full Review First a little background on who I am. I've personally used windows from version 3.1 to windows 2000. I have also used different versions of Mac OS. While I use windows 2000 at work I prefer Mac OS X. My first computer was an Apple ][. When Apple started with the original Mac I switched over to windows. When OS X came out I started playing with it as an alternative to windows xp. I now own a G4 tower. I have recommended the iBook to a few people. Both my mother and sister have purchased iBooks, solely on my say so. So you know if anything goes wrong , they will call me. To date my mom (computer illiterate), and my sister (former windows user), have had no problems with the iBook. Being I set up an Airport® network for them and administer it. they have been happy. The iBook is a pretty solid computer, but I also suggest investing the extra in AppleCare®. Notebooks take more abuse than desktops, by nature. So AppleCare® is a small, price to pay for the security it offers. First the Pros: The iBook is a decent size and weight for a notebook. Not too big and heavy, yet big enough to work on. There aren't may notebook that draw the looks like a Mac notebook. Being these are consumer level computers they have enough punch to do what the majority of users want. 12.1" iBook 4.9 pounds, 14 " iBook 5.9 pounds. They average a 4 hour 45 minute to 5 hour battery life, depending on use. You can also plug in an Apple keyboard and optical mouse, or any other USB Keyboard and mouse. The iBook has 2 USB ports, 1 Firewire® port, either a tray loading CD-ROM or Combo drive (DVD/CD-RW), Airport® ready (Airport® card $99 extra), 10/100 base T ethernet port, internal 56k (v.92) modem (modem cable included), power adaptor (wall plug) and an output for an external monitor (adapter included). You can pick up an iBook for as little as $999 these days (G3 700 MHz). From The Apple store http://store.apple.com/1-800-MY-APPLE/WebObjects/AppleStore/ 700 MHz iBook $999.00 • 128 MB SDRAM built-in • 20 GB Ultra ATA drive • CD-ROM drive • Keyboard/Mac OS - U.S. English • ATI Mobility RADEON 7500 w/ 16 MB VRAM • Mac OS X and Mac OS 9 included • 12.1-inch TFT XGA display With the following software included Mac OS X, Mac OS 9, QuickTime, iCal, iChat, iMovie, iPhoto, iTunes, DVD Player (on Combo drive equipped iBooks), AppleWorks, Mac OS X Mail, Microsoft Internet Explorer, EarthLink (includes 30 days of free service), AOL, Quicken 2003 Deluxe, World Book 2003 Edition, Mac OS X Chess, Otto Matic, Deimos Rising, FAXstf, PixelNhance, and Acrobat Reader; Apple Hardware Test CD. My mom has been using hers for over a year without any problems, my sister has been using her's since June, again without any problems. The Cons: There are a few minor problems with the iBook in my eyes. They are 1) 128 MB RAM Should be 256 MB (12.1" models) 2) Lack of user upgrades, beyond the RAM and Airport® card there are no user upgradeable options. I would like to be able to upgrade the hard drive, without voiding the warranty. For anyone looking for a laptop to use in DVD editing, as a desktop replacement, or for a work machine I would suggest the TiBook (Titanium Powerbook). But as a consumer level computer, the iBook is a friendly dependable unit. OS X (Jaguar), makes the iBook a steal at the prices listed by Apple. Recommended Yes
iMac in your Backpack! Jan 11 '02 Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros small, light weight, sharp LCD, full size keyboard, many port connections, built in wireless antenna Cons no PC card slots, tray loading optical drive, no audio-in, no spanning-video -out, G3 The Bottom Line Small, light, most of the features of a desktop. This is my laptop of choice! Full Review The iBook is Apple's consumer targeted laptop. They have managed to pack a 1024x768 screen, an optical drive (CD-ROM or CD-RW/DVD), two USB ports, a Firewire port, 10/100 mbps ethernet, a 56K modem, external audio/video (composite or VGA, mirrored), stereo speakers, and wireless network access into a 11.2x9x1.35", 5 pound, shiny white chiclet. I purchased mine (500mhz, 66mhz bus, CD-RW/DVD, 12" screen, 256MB RAM) last May and it has performed beyond my expectations. Even after the latest model (600mhz, 100mhz bus, CD-RW/DVD, 12" or 14" screen, 256MB RAM) was released, my iBook has held its value. [OPERATING SYSTEM: MAC OS] Since the release of the 500/600mhz iBook, Apple has included it's new unix-based Mac OS X software with every model. I have been using Mac OS X as my main operating system since the release of version 10.1 and I recommend that any iBook owner do the same. You should have 256MB or 384MB of RAM for optimal performance, and pick up a couple of free utilities from http://www.unsanity.com/ to tweak the performance. (I've found application icons bouncing for you attention slow down system performance significantly on a G3) For those of you unfamiliar with Mac OS X, the unix based operating system features protected memory (applications that crash will quit themselves, not bring down the whole system) and a multi-tasking system which allows multi-media and interface processes to have priority over other actions, resulting in smooth MP3 and DVD/Quicktime playback. Another benefit of Mac OS X is the almost instant wake-up from sleep, essentially making your iBook as readily accessible as a PDA. [AIRPORT] One of my favourite features of the iBook is the option to equip it with an AirPort wireless card. I carry my iBook with me everywhere, and not only can I access the Internet from many of the main buildings on campus, I have found that other public locations such as the Starbucks coffee shops in Manhattan have access points as well. (for a fee, of course) If you find yourself tethered to a cable modem, or network port in your home or office, purchasing an AirPort base station for $300 (or another compatible transmitter) will allow you to set up your own wireless network with a 100 to 150 foot range. [RECOMMENDED ACCESSORIES] In addition to AirPort, I recommend you purchase a good set of external speakers, or some nice headphones to fully appreciate the output of the sound card. The internal speakers are a bit weak, but comparable to other laptops on t he market. If you are doing any audio input or output work, I recommend Griffin Technologies' "iMic", an analog USB audio interface. The iMic gives the iBook an audio in port, as well as an additional audio out port, both protected from signal noise sometimes present in internal audio hardware. And although the shiny white exterior is very strong, a thin, padded "slip case" to help the iBook survive backpack life is a useful, though hard to find, accessory. (Don't bother with those large notebook bags - they defeat the purpose of having one of the world's smallest full-featured notebooks) [PROBLEMS] A very durable unit, but I have had a few problems since I bought my iBook, which are easily fixed by a warranty repair: The trackpad button tends to double-click by itself if held down and pressure is released slightly, the screen seems a bit darker than a friend's newer model (I'll be looking into this), and some CD-RW discs when mounted under Mac OS X have produced a chain reaction of errors, requiring a reboot. (If you've had this problem, please contact me, I can't find it documented anywhere.) Also, the magnetic latch which keeps the unit closed has started to require a little extra push when opening the unit. (again a warranty issue) [HIDDEN FEATURES] When I spend a lot of money on a laptop, I like to be surprised, and this model has surpassed my expectations with a few unadvertised features: When connecting my iBook to my desktop machine via Firewire, both computers' hard disk icons appear on each other's desktops - instant, hastle free networking!, Speaking of networking, this model doesn't need a special cross-over cable to create a two-computer network - the ethernet port automatically switches polarity. And to save the best for last, like Apple's other laptop models, the iBook uses convection rather than a cooling fan to keep the temperature normal - most of the time! I was watching a DVD during the summer and thoughtlessly placed the unit on a blanket, preventing it's convection cooling to work properly. To my surprise, and amazement, an internal cooling fan started up and brought the temperature back down to normal! A definite improvement over the 466mhz model, which would just turn itself off when things got a bit toasty. Recommended Yes
Apple's New iBook Feels Like an Old Friend Jan 12 '02 Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Pros Chic, solid, extremely light, and highly functional Cons Like all Macs-- lack of software and peripherals The Bottom Line If you're a Mac fan, this is a no-brainer. If you're used to PCs, you may want to give the iBook a long, hard look... Full Review I bought an iBook as a Christmas present for my wife. Her previous computer had been a Macintosh Powerbook 1400c/133 with 40MB RAM (PowerPC 603e processor, 6.7 lbs, MacOS 8.0, 11.3" color screen, 40MB RAM). Needless to say, the iBook (500MHz PowerPC G3, 4.1 lbs, MacOS 9.2, 12.1" TFT XGA display, 128MB RAM, 10GB HDD, DVD-ROM/CD-RW Combo drive) is at once furiously faster, elegantly sleeker, and infinitely lighter than the Powerbook. Taking it out of the box, the translucent white iBook simply feels like a quality piece of machinery-- solid, with no loose parts that feel like they might break. Opening it up, the white keyboard (which, by the way, has excellent tactile feedback) and wide touchpad have a warm, familiar feel to them, as if the iBook is welcoming you home. Apple design and marketing has another winner in the iBook! I'll echo the sentiment of other users, though, when I say that the UFO-shaped power cable is one of the weaker points of the iBook-- it's largish, with a relatively thin, flimsy cord that's not even particularly long. I wouldn't be surprised if I had to buy another one of these at some point. The very first thing I wanted to check was whether the iBook could handle the full-screen Lord of the Rings trailer; the 1400c had not been able to handle Quicktimes beyond 160x160 in resolution. Happily, the iBook handled it perfectly; there were no visible skipped frames or other signs of distress, and the iBook's built-in speakers did justice to what must be one of the best trailers for one of the best movies of the year (I'm also a die-hard Tolkien fan!). The iBook came with Internet Explorer 5.0 pre-installed. I can't recommend IE5 on the iBook; it tends to hang for inexplicable reasons, especially if I have multiple browser windows open, and it's quite a bit slower than IE5 on my Dell Latitude CPx (P3-700). Here's a hint, though: install Netscape on the iBook. I installed Netscape v6.2.1, and Netscape on the iBook s definitely significantly snappier and more stable than IE5 on the iBook, rivaling my Dell in performance. The iBook's built-in DVD-ROM/CD-RW (4x4x6x24-- writes CD-R and CD-RW discs at 4x speed; reads DVD-ROM discs at 6x speed; reads CD-ROM discs at 24x speed) is a major plus, especially in such a light computer. Usually, with computers that are this light, you have tote around external drives and cables. Not so with the iBook! Here's another hint: You can hook up the iBook's display to a TV, and thereby use it as your primary DVD player. You need to get the iBook A/V out cable, which hooks into the headphone jack and splits into 3 RCA jacks. You can purchase it for $19.00 at the Apple Store; go to store.apple.com, and click on cables & hubs. The iBook snoozes and wakes up like a dream-- it takes only seconds to put it into suspend mode, and only seconds to wake it. When the iBook is asleep, a small round dot pulses with a bluish-white light on its front, giving you the soothing impression that it's dreaming happy dreams. The iBook is much, much quieter than my Dell Latitude. This may be an unfair comparison, since my Dell must be as loud as a 747, but the fact remains that I can barely hear the iBook when it's on. Web sharing is annoying and doesn't quite work properly. I had a 20MB PowerPoint file that I had to transfer from the iBook to the Dell; I tried to do it via web sharing, but I couldn't actually download the binary file. If you want a quick way to transfer large files between your PC and Mac, and you're reasonably computer-savvy, I highly recommend the freeware Hotline FTP Server for the Mac. Happily, the two built-in USB ports play well with accessories. My wife has a Palm m100, and I've been able to successfully get it to sync with Palm Desktop for the Macintosh using the KeySpan USB PDA cable. Also, I was pleased to find that I could just plug in my Logitech Optical Wheel Mouse and it mostly worked, with no additional driver installation. Initially, the wheel didn't work, although this was quickly fixed by downloading the latest MouseMan drivers for the Mac from www.logitech.com. Now, the scroll-wheel works beautifully; in addition, the right mouse button works the same way it does on a PC-- i.e., when you right-click a link, you get the familiar context menu. I like the iBook a lot-- I really do. Ultimately, though, the reason that I purchased the iBook was for the very practical reason that my wife was familiar with Macs, everyone else at the place that she worked used Macs, and all of the papers that she has been written have been formatted with Macintosh fonts. In addition, it does everything she needs it to do-- it allows her to browse the Internet, use Microsoft Office effectively, and telnet/ssh into her university's servers. Finally, the iBook is comparatively just not that expensive! According to most folks' best estimates, a G3 is approximately 33% faster than a comparable P3 at the same MHz rating, which would make a 500 MHz G3 roughly equivalent to a P3-700. Look around-- you're going to be hard-pressed to find a P3-700 that packs in this much functionality into such a sleek, stylish package at this price. Now, I just wish that I could find a PC that was this well-designed... Recommended Yes
The BSD User in You Jan 27 '02 Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Ultra-portable, tough, great picture, small, tough!, built in ports... Cons Battery life, stock ram and tech support... The Bottom Line Buy it if you want the best consumer laptop out there. Don't buy if you want quality support Full Review This laptop has replaced my pc, my need for windows, my need for a seperate unix server. Basically this is a godsend to any developer. I purchased my laptop in June of last year, since then I have dropped it half a dozen times on very hard surfaces, had it fly up the aisle on a plane, when it landed and a slew of other things. Oh yes, did I mention I walk around with it in sub-zero weather? Yup, that's right this little thing is TOUGH! It has a great polycarb outer shell that protects it from just about everything. Sure, mine has battle scars, but it keeps on running and I can take it anywhere (literally) and rely on it working. I use this to prototype, develop and launch websites. I'm learning Objective C and getting a fast handle on the developer tools so I can start writing some cool software for this platform. When I ordered it, I ordered above stock model with the following options: 192MB RAM (later upgraded to 384MB) CD-RW 2 Batteries OS 9.1 (Booting)/OSX (Non-Booting) When I recieved it, it was amazingly fast in OS 9, top of the line.I wanted it for OS X. Since I was a PC User, I had to contact tech support to be educated in the process of booting it into OS X (not difficult). Called them, they told me, away I went. After this, I got one person who seemed as disgruntled as I was with some problems that came up. NOW ONTO MY SUPPORT QUALMS When Apple shipped the first few batches of these iBooks, some went with the wrong power adapters. So your iBook batteries would either charge for a bit off of the adapter or not at all. Now I spent almost five months trying to find the solution to this. We are talking over ten support calls, days of searching through support forums, several repair mailings and finally after all that someone had the idea it might be the power adapter. The Apple rep's were not only condescending, they were downright authortarian. It was either their way or no way. I refuse to purchase the AppleCare plan ($350 for an extended warrenty?) due to this. I used to work for an outsourcer of Gateway (I thought we were bad) and compared to Apple support. Gateway is the knight in shining armor. What's the moral of the story? If you don't know how to troubleshoot your own computer don't purchase an iBook, I went from PC to Mac, and I'm not going back. However I now know a metric ton (about five months of research) about how to fix mac's and their associated problems. If you don't, be wary. Otherwise if you're a guru, and can learn on your own go for it. Apple, has a few lessons to be taught to it, by the cutthroat PC market, one of them is support. If you have bad support, no one buys your product except guru's and fanatics. Overall am I happy? Yes, however I cringe even thinking about having to deal with Apple Support again. Recommended Yes
I came, I saw, iBooked Feb 11 '03 (Updated Feb 11 '03) Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 4.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Tiny size with big appeal. Cons Occasionally overheats, and product finish is not what you'd expect from Apple The Bottom Line All in all, a very handy bit of kit for the travelling computer user. Full Review I bought one of these little devils about a year ago for work and play. I wanted something that I could easily carry round to show work on, but also something to play on when I got home in the evenings. With the iBook I have both. This is a great machine for most computer work except some graphic heavy stuff due to the limitations of screen resolutions it can run (you can never run this iBook at greater than 1024x768). For word processing, some design work, web building and other administrative tasks though, this is great. The best feature is by far the portability. This is a tiny machine in terms of weight and size, even though the processing power packs a mean punch. If you're going to buy this though, I would thoroughly recommend getting the CD/DVD combo drawer, as one of the standard features that come as part of the deal is the invaluable iTunes. MP3 lovers, you will want to marry this application. I watch DVD's on it and burn audio CD's without problem. The unit does have a habit of overheating sometimes, and the fan that automatically kicks-in is very noisy. Battery life is excellent - I can get about 5 hours word processing on a full charge, or about 2 hours doing processor intensive work such as Photoshop or Flash. The screen quality is amazing - far better than any PC, but MAC users will already be used to this. (please note, my "amount paid" is a conversion from 1,200 UK Pounds) Recommended Yes
Moved from PowerBook to IBook Oct 13 '02 Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Size, style, simple to use Cons Needs 256 mg RAM standard The Bottom Line Small, cool and easy to use. Technology that is transparent--this is what all providers should aim for. Full Review When my ancient PowerBook needed replaced due to age, I looked at what I used the laptop for. As a supplement to my desktop unit, the laptop needed to offer many of the same features--but would not be used as heavily. Size, portability and ease of use were also important. The iBook has been all of that. It worked just fine out of the box. The Airport set up was simple. The screen is a bit small, but it does not seem to be an issue. I use .MAC, so sharing files and images has been quite easy. All hardware (cameras, printers, scanner) have worked well. The size and weight continue to be a big plus. This is truly a "personal" computer. I am finding that I grab it and sit in a comfortable chair--instead of working at my desk. Probably not the computer you want if you have lots of heavy duty stuff and graphics to do..but it makes a nice portable version of your workstation. College kids should like it---cool design, does music and graphics well. Network stuff is quite easy. Recommended Yes
When I started looking for a computer for school, my first thought was to buy a desktop system. I knew I wanted an Apple computer, but I couldn't decide which model to get. Then someone suggested I look at the iBook...I laughed. Now who's laughing? I decided that it couldn't hurt to just look at an iBook because I had convinced myself that it was not what I was looking for. I was completely wrong. This sleek little computer has the power of a desktop, and comes with some features that Apple has yet to put into the rest of its computer line. That would be the DVD/CD-RW Combo drive. I have yet to use the CD-RW feature of the drive, but I have played many a DVD. While it doesn't always play them flawlessly (It's a computer, not an entertainment system.) it does quite a job. It depends on how you have the system's energy saving features set up as to how well the DVDs play. The picture is wonderful, but the speakers do sound a little hollow, somewhat like an alarm radio. Don't let the G3 processor scare you away. I know this sounds crazy, but the 500 Mhz G3 seems faster than some of the G4s that I have used that were running at 433 (I think). I've installed Photoshop and Illustrator and it runs both of these programs just fine. I was worried about having such a small screen, but that has yet to be a problem. I really don't notice it at all. There are, however, some annoying things about this computer. It comes with iTunes, a program that allows you to create CDs, and lets you import music to your hard drive, but it tries to connect to the internet every time you put in a CD! I thought I found a way to disable this crazy feature, but I was wrong and am still looking. It also comes with iMovie, but with a "10" gig hard drive, you really don't have much room for importing video. (The hard drive ships with almost 7 gig of available space.) The computer does get hot. Very hot. For some reason the left side, near the trackpad, gets super hot if the computer is on very long. The bottom also gets quite hot. The other thing I don't quite understand is the keyboard. It's designed so you can pop it out and ad RAM and an AirPort card, but there is nothing holding the middle in. Whenever you type from the middle of the top row, or use any numbers, it feels like the keyboard is going to fly apart, and I've read that some people have had keys pop off that wouldn't go back on! Overall, I think this computer is a great choice. The features and ease of use make it an ideal choice for a student, but it's good for anyone. If you're used to a mouse, you may want to buy one to use with the computer because the trackpad can be hard to use sometimes. (I have a mouse for using Photoshop, for example.)
Another success triumph for Apple. Their iBook has been one of the better surprises that they have ever had. The company managed to learn a thing or two from previous products, mainly the PowerBook G4. Th iBook is a straightforward looking business person's laptop. One with plenty of power and get up and go features to allow any successful person to want to log on and tune out the world. How did they do it? First off you swap out the older processor with a newer 600MHz version. Slap in a nifty DVD/CD-R/CD-RW combination drive and beef up the storage to the tune of a 20GB hard drive. They added another log on the performance fire by massaging the system bus work to boost the speed from 66 MHz to 100MHz. Apple managed to drop some weight from the earlier models {down to 4.9 pounds -12 ounces for the power supply} and zip up the look by creating a stylish, elegant white polycarbonate and silver magnesium case that looks cool, but still feels tuff. My unit had come with the standard 128 MB ram  but I immediately bumped that up to the maximum of 640 MB (RAM is goo  MORE RAM is MORE GOOD, ancient Computer Tech saying). In fact, the architecture of the G series processor and motherboards improves performance almost logarithmically as the amount of RAM is increased. Almost all of the connection ports are still on the left side (the AC jack is on the right). These include 56K modem, 10/100BaseT Ethernet, a FireWire port, two USB ports, a Kensington lock port, and a miniature monitor output port. {This port will connect to a standard monitor with the use of an adapter}. The audio and video port serves as headphone or speaker jack as well as direct output to a TV or video projector (again with an optional Apple A/V cable). I am still missing the much-needed PC Card slot, but I have found that by using either USB or Firewire accessories that my expansion capabilities are not too limited. In fact, I expect that I will be using an external DVD and/or CD-RW burner via Firewire for speedier copies than what the internal drive can do. The keyboard is still the same. One of the few things not needing improvement. The display is powered by an ATI Rage Mobility chip setup, providing superior and clean 12.1-inch LCD viewing. Incorporating the 8 MB AGP 2x - ATI RAGE MOBILITY 128 graphics card into the system, does this. The architecture of the Apple makes the requirements of a greater quantity of video RAM unnecessary. My wife requires a bit larger screen display than I do, and the swapping between modes is quick and simple. With the incorporation of - AGP 2x - ATI RAGE MOBILITY 128 I all ways managed to find myself opening up any new toy before the warranty expires. I do this in order to ascertain how easy the toy is to repair or upgrade. The iBook is a cinch to upgrade, just loosen up one screw and the keyboard pops out. RAM upgrades are easy enough for my six year old girls; two screws, a RAM shield, pop in more RAM. I was pleased that Apple supplied both Mac OS 9.2.1 and OS X 10.1. I like the 10.1 version more due to the improved stability and performance. And if you like to embalm yourself into the Unix universe, then the OS X is just what you need. webserver installed for webhosting. The networking on the iBook (and any MacOS X system) is the most comprehensive around. You'll be able to connect to just about any network -- even those Windows networks. Apple also included Apache, AppleWorks, iMovie, iTunes, Mail, Micro's FaxStf, Internet Explorer, Outlook Express, and Netscape Communicator. For those of you in need of written material, Apple supplies two manuals, one for the iBook and the other for Mac OS X 10.1. Most people who buy this machine will do so mainly because of the digital sound and video capabilities. And that is probably more than enough to turn a few heads that would never had considered a Mac before. But those of us who have been down the block a time or two will see what this machine really is. This is the poor mans Corvette, the frugal persons Calphalon. This little package will stun you with performance and capabilities, while still allowing you to retain enough of an income to make the house payment, AND take your spouse to dinner! One of the areas that Apple needs to pay attention to in the future is the poor battery performance. Apple states the iBook's battery life is a lengthy 5 hours. I have had no luck obtaining the posted result. I found that excessive use of the DVD swamps the battery and kills it after 2 hours of use. I can not truly compare the iBook to other non-Apple laptops. That would be like comparing lobster bisque to chicken noodle soup. The iBook does not have the blistering speed that its big brother does, but it performs very well against more pricey (and less capable) Intel based laptops. Apple's other area of concern should be their warranty. The one year is an industry standard, but the 90 days of toll free technical support is not long enough. Add to this the $49 charge per support call after the 90 days and you have a sharp slap in the face. The three year AppleCare warranty extension is costs a whopping $249. I have found that Apple's Web provides sufficient material and information {documents, software updates, and discussion forums} to allow an old cpu tech like myself to keep my system running. The bottom line is that unless you like to spend money, or absolutely have got to have state of the art performance, then the iBook may be the perfect laptop for you. It is speedy, light, solid, and has a beautiful display and plenty of sex appeal.
Years ago I used to be a staunch Macintosh user. I was a big user when System 7 was around and used Macs all the way up to System 8.5. My last Mac was a PowerMac 7200, but I had other Macs also -- PowerBook 180, Duo 230, PowerMac 6100, and my beloved Mac LCIII. But, as things happen the creaks and cracks in the age old MacOS were finally showing with System 8.5 and 9. I left the Mac community for a bit -- I've always been a Mac and Windows user. So what convinced me to step back into the Mac arena? A Unix shell. Plain and simple, that's what got me back on track for a Mac. My friend Darrell showed me how I could open up a Unix shell with a iBook 500 a few months ago and I was astounded. He also showed me that Perl was installed by default -- that was all that it took. I was sold, I knew I needed a new iBook for MacOS X! So, what does the iBook have? This is the iBook 600. It has a PowerPC G3 processor inside running at 600MHz on a 100MHz bus. The 100MHz bus is something important here because that's the speed at which the processor moves data between the different components of the machine (most importantly the RAM). In previous iBook incarnations the bus speed was 66MHz, but Apple increased this with the iBook 600. The iBook comes with a default of 128MB of RAM. This is a great amount of RAM to have if you're working with MacOS 9. But, if you're going to use MacOS X (which is the future of Macintosh) then you'll definitely want to boost the RAM in the machine. 128MB of RAM is the minimum amount of RAM that will run MacOS X. 256MB is a decent number to be at if you won't be running more than two or three applications at once. I put in an extra 256MB of RAM to bring the system up to 384MB of RAM and the system runs fast and smooth. The only other upgrade choice is to put in a 512MB SO-DIMM of RAM, but that's a bit of overkill. Looking at the utility "top" in the command-line I still have a lot of free RAM left after opening many applications (MS Word, Internet Explorer, LimeWire, Fire, and Mail). The key word here when you are thinking about MacOS X is "RAM." The more the better with MacOS X. The iBook 600 comes in all different combinations. These combinations are of the optical device that is installed into the system and also one for the screen size. First the optical devices. You have the choice of having this system with: CD-ROM drive, DVD-ROM drive, CD-RW drive, and DVD-CD/RW drive. I went with the combo DVD-CD/RW drive so that I can watch DVD movies in bed and also burn CDs to move data around to different machines. The CD/RW drive is a 4x4x6x24 drive, meaning that it burns CD-R media at 4X, CD-RW media at 4X, reads DVDs at 6x, and reads CDs at 24x. This is plenty fast for burning audio CDs of MP3s and burning data for backups. If you're doing a lot of burning, this maybe a bit slow and you can opt to get one of the other choices (CD or DVD) and then add a FireWire CD-RW drive (which burns at a lot faster speed). The combo DVD-CD/RW drive, as you may have guessed, is the most expensive of the choices. The list is in order of cost from least expensive to most expensive. The other choice that you have with the iBook 600 is the screen size. Apple just released a 14" version of the iBook 600. The innards are all the same -- though you'll get a faster DVD-CD/RW drive inside (it's a 8x8x8x24 drive) -- the only difference is the screen. Why didn't I choose the 14" screen over the 12.1" screen? Easy, they both run at 1024x768. If the 14" screen could run at a higher resolution it would have been a no-brainer. But because the 14" screen runs at the same resolution as the 12.1" screen, there really is no benefit of paying $300 more for a mere 1.9" of diagonal screen display. Talking about the display, it is one clear and bright display. My work notebook is a Sony VAIO and it has a nice display. The iBook display is on par with the Sony display, though I might have to say that the iBook display is a bit brighter at the highest brightness setting. My only gripe about the display is that though there are special function keys to adjust the brightness, they don't seem to work that well. I wish also that MacOS X would be able to detect the difference between the iBook being plugged-in and running off batteries in respect to the display brightness. On the Sony VAIO it automatically adjust the screen brightness down when the notebook is unplugged from the power, this is not the case witht he iBook. The "new" Macintosh is being sold as a digital hub for all things digital -- movies, music, pictures, etc. And I must say that this is true! The DVD player that is included with MacOS X works wonderfully. It includes a fullscreen mode that lets one watch movies as if the iBook were a nice 12.1" portable DVD player. iTunes is a wonderful jukebox that lets you rip your CDs (don't steal music!) and catalog them. iTunes is really good when you think about the offerings on the Windows side -- in that there is nothing this well done on the Windows side that is free! iPhoto is a wonder in itself. The program has an interface that is unique -- it lets you zoom in and out of a page full of thumbnails. If you want an overview of all your pictures you can zoom out. If you want to look at a few, you can zoom in -- all the way up to a single picture. This is an ingenius interface. I have not had the chance to try iMovie yet because I don't have a FireWire capable DV camera. On the iBook I don't run MacOS 9.x at all. I'm strictly using it for MacOS X because it will be the future of the Macintosh line of computers. The OS is stable and solid. Yes, there is a learning curve when one comes from a previous MacOS system, but it's not too bad. And the trade-off for that learning time is a rock-solid operating system. When I was looking at the iBook I was worried that the G3 600MHz chip inside would be too slow for MacOS X. I'll have to report that the chip is just fine -- it's really not the chip speed that makes the difference, but the amount of RAM that you have installed. The one other thing that I added to the system is an AirPort card so that I can take advantage of the 802.11b wireless network that I already have installed in my house. If you have an 802.11b access point already installed in your house, then the AirPort card is a must. The best thing about the AirPort card is that it is all internal. The antenna is built-in to the iBook itself. So, unlike my Sony VAIO with an 802.11b card in the PC Card slot and a big antenna hanging out of the notebook, the AirPort is clean. To upgrade the machine is a snap. All you have to do is loosen up one screw and take off the keyboard. To install RAM you loosen two more screws on the RAM shield and then pop in the RAM. Put the shield back on and that's it. For the AirPort, just slide it into the AirPort slot (which is above that shield). I did the RAM and AirPort upgrade in less than 30 minutes. If you're a heavy Unix user -- like me -- then MacOS X has its benefits for you. The Aqua interface for "regular" home users is nice, but if you like the command line then it is there too! All the goodness of BSD Unix lives under that beautiful Aqua interface. Along with this you'll be able to let people SSH into the machine. There is also an FTP server for file transfers. And the iBook has the Apache webserver installed for webhosting. The networking on the iBook (and any MacOS X system) is the most comprehensive around. You'll be able to connect to just about any network -- even those Windows networks. The iBook comes installed with a slew of software to get you going. This includes the very useful AppleWorks which includes a word processor, spreadsheet, database, drawing, painting, and presentation applications all in one. Very useful to start off with. The iBook also comes with some games (like Cro-Mag racing and Bugdom) to play. On the MacOS 9.x side you'll also get a fax program. This machine is ready out of the box to be a productive machine. Thinking about an iBook? Don't think, just get one. It's a light machine that you can carry around with you to do all the stuff you need. This is by no means a high powered machine though. If you are going to do serious movie editting or Photoshop work then I would suggest one of the PowerBook G4 machines. The iBook is a medium speed machine that is great for word processing, web surfing, and emailing. If you want to do gaming, go get a Playstation 2. Get an iBook 600, you won't regret it, especially since Apple just dropped the price on the 12.1" DVD-CD/RW combo system by $200!
As a long-time devotee of Macs who had been in PC purgatory for an extended period, I was delighted to be able to return to the fold. I had just switched jobs to a facility that is Mac-centric and, because I spend a lot of time on a train for my commute (2hrs./day) I was able to justify the purchase of a laptop for myself to handle basic work on the way to and from work. I looked at both the iBook and the PowerBook and compared features and then assessed what functions I would need during my commute. I decided that rather than spending the additional $500-$1000 to buy the PowerBook, I could easily function with the iBook for 99% of what I needed. The added feature of the ComboDrive (CD-RW/DVD-R) allowed me to archive files on a removable media (at the time, the Powerbooks were not yet shipping with the combo drive). It has easy access to several ports (2 USB and 1 firewire) as well as having a built in 10/100 Ethernet port and 56k modem. There is a jack out to an external monitor (or projector), but it needs an adaptor (provided) to convert to the standard input jack on most monitors. There are a few drawbacks to the computer, minor but easily workable. First and foremost is the monitor size (12.1") which can really stress the eyes after a period of wordprocessing. I have used the powerbook and that monitor size is much nicer (the only problem is that the computer is longer than the average laptop, so you will have a problem finding a case without buying the Brenthaven unit designed for it). Another problem, that I read about in a review and have found to be true, is the keyboard. At the top of the keyboard (numbers and function keys), the attachment to the frame of the computer has a bit of play. As a result, when you are typing, the keyboard "squishes" under your fingers a bit. This can be a bit disorienting when it comes to touch typing (and has slowed me down a bit). I haven't heard of anyone breaking a keyboard as a result, but you can easily buy a replacement keyboard from apple. One other problem (that tends to be endemic in the "slimline" laptops) is that the screen and keyboard sit very close together. This can result in a scuffing of the screen where the tops of the keys bump against the screen -- this problem is amplified in the powerbook (as it is a bit thinner). One work around is to keep the thin sheet of foam that comes packed between the two. I use a small piece of chamois (that serves as a gentle screenwipe). The last problem with this unit is the RAM. It ships with a (dismal) hard-wired 128mb. You can upgrade (with only one free slot) to a total of 640mb (which is definitely worth it). The other thing I can't quite grasp is why this still has the G3, especially in light of the new G4 iMac. Overall this is a good, solid, stable (with OS X) laptop. With the increase in OS X native software, Macs are the way to go. Besides, it looks so much cooler than any of the grey wintel boxes on the train.
 I was heading off to college this fall, and I finally weedled my parents into getting me a laptop. Apple has always been strong in the educational market, and with the release of the updated iBook, this fact has never felt truer. In my search for the perfect notebook, I weighed in the features that would be most important for my needs: - A word processor (hey, that midterm paper isn't going to write itself) - Easy connection to the Internet (Doh! I gotta get some ideas and information for that paper first!) - Good music software (A little Foo Fighters helps maintain my sanity) Well, the iBook definately covers each of these bases and much more. It comes packed with Appleworks 6, a powerful suite of office-like programs from your basic paint to slideshows to the obligatory word processor. But more demanding users may opt for Microsoft Office, and for you lucky college students, you probably can get the academic version at your campus bookstore for $5. Best thing, it's compatible with the Windows version so you can communicate with your non-enlightened friends in an effort to lure them away from the dark side. Surfing the web is a snap; in fact the computer will guide you through it right after you turn it on for the first time. Finally iTunes, the music program included on all macs is a blast. It is aesthetically appealing, with one the coolest visualizers I've ever seen. It organizes all your music, from the ripped tracks from roommate's cds to the new tunes you downloaded off of the Gnuttella network (hey, not that I'm advocating it), you're wired and good to go. UPDATE: with the newly released iPod mp3 player, audiophiles have the most compelling reason ever to make the switch to macs. This player's groundbreaking, but I won't ramble on about it, check if epinions has that up yet. Now despite my gushy acclaim for the iBook, there are caveats. After only a few days of use, I found numerous scratches all over the case. It is made out of a very smooth polycarbonate that is tactilely appealing but scratches like no other. On the white case, they're hardly noticeable, but on a $1500 investment, it certainly conjures up a saddened whimper. Although I find no problem with the 12.1 inch screen - it attributes to the portability - it might take some people some adjustment and consequently, some squinting time. The resolution on the LCD is very good, and it is bright and crisp, perfect for watching DVD movies. I'm not going to bother outlining all the technical details- if you are reading this you've most likely done some research. The Bottom Line is 10 gigs is a tight squeeze if you love music and plan to do iMovie editing (going with the 10 gig hard drive was probably my biggest mistake). Expand your RAM to 256 MB if you want to run several programs simultaneously and with more zip. I bought a 500 Mhz iBook, but you should consider the 600 mhz one, especially since the bus is faster - 100 mhz instead of 66. The thing that might bog you down the most in deciding whether you should make this buy will probably be the fact that this is a mac. Truth be told, you do sacrifice some convenience with the iBook. A lot of software and games are not compatible and the selection is limited. I dislike the fact that the computer doesn't have a floppy drive - sure, you could email the file or burn it on a cd (if you have the CD-RW or combo drive) - but the use of floppies still haven't really diminished. Sure the iBook has its drawbacks, but in the end for me, it came down to the personal touches Apple puts on all its products, from the pulsating sleep light to the glowing Apple logo. After all, a laptop is the most personal computer of all, and the fact that everything about it tells you that it was a labor of love from the folks at Apple, really makes getting that paper written a lot less of a daunting task.
I had been considering purchasing a laptop computer for some time, when I heard that Apple had updated the iBook lineup. Here is a quick summary of the new features: The iBooks now feature the ATI Radeon Mobility 7500 graphics chipset; the lower-end iBook has 16MB VRAM, the other iBooks have 32MB. The lower-end iBook has a 700Mhz G3, while the higher-end iBook has an 800Mhz G3 processor. The prices are lower than ever, starting at $999 for the 700Mhz iBook. I decided to go with the 800Mhz iBook, since they really offer a lot for the $300 more they cost than the 700Mhz iBook. The 800Mhz iBook gives you more speed, a CD-RW/DVD combo drive (instead of the CD-ROM in the 700Mhz iBook), 32MB VRAM instead of 16MB, and the same lovely case as the latest iBooks have had. The 700Mhz $999 model has a different case; it is white plastic everywhere, whereas the nicer iBooks are metallic-looking on the inside and white with clear lexan on the outer case, just like they have been for some time. I also decided to go with the 12.1" display, since it has the same resolution as the 14.1" display. The only real benefit to the 14.1" iBook is that it includes a higher-capacity battery, which offers at most 1 more hour of use. The benefits of the 12.1" iBook are the following: weighs 1 lb less, 1.5" narrower, slightly more than 1" less deep, costs at least $200 less, and it has a more sturdy feel than does the 14.1" iBook. Noticing that all of the iBooks have 128MB RAM permanently attached to the motherboard, I chose to populate the singe memory expansion slot with a 512MB SO-DIMM, which cost me $100 online (about $100 less than Apple sells it for). Having read reviews on the IBM Travelstar 40GXN hard drive, I bought the iBook from an online store that offered the Travelstar as an upgrade (http://store.powerbook1.com/index.html). They charged me $50 to switch up from the standard 30GB model in the iBook, plus $39.95 for installation (included RAM and Airport card installation too). This hard drive really is great; it has 5400rpm instead of the usual 4200rpm, and has an 8MB buffer instead of the usual 1-2MB. Anyways, I was of course delighted to get the package, since Apple always does an amazing job of packing things. The iBook package is a keeper. The iBook includes a power adapter, extension cord for the adapter, 6 foot phone line, and a VGA-output adapter. International plug kits are available from Apple, and composite/SVideo-out adapters are available for about $15. Setup was a complete breeze with OS 10.2.1, which is included as the default operating system. The iBook feels as sturdy as a rock. Much more professional-feeling than any PC laptop I've worked on, including the Pentium4 Lattitudes and Inspirons from Dell. The iBook is basically dead silent when operating. If you are in a library or something, you might hear the faint noises of the the hard drive, but then if you don't get a 5400rpm drive like I did, you might not hear it at all. Performance is amazing. Quake III gets about 50fps in 1024*758 mode, just like Apple says. Wolfenstein plays very well at 1024*768, as does Alice. Everything is very snappy, and load times are not bad at all with the awesome hard drive. DVD playback - of movies - is perfect. Never choppy at all, and beautiful. The ATI Mobility 7500 is pretty much taking care of DVD playback; I enabled the CPU monitor, and watched CPU utilization while moving the DVD playback window around on the screen. The movie continues to play smoothly, and the CPU hovers around 60% utilization. The 12.1" screen is beautiful, and I prefer it to my 17" Viewsonic monitor. DVD playback - of interlaced material - is in need of deinterlacing. I found out the other night, while trying to watch a Simpsons Season 2 DVD, that interlaced DVDs show yucky interlacing artifacts in Apple's DVD Player, both in Mac OS 9 AND Mac OS X. I really hope Apple fixes this soon, since the ATI Radeon Mobility 7500 has hardware support for DVD deinterlacing as I understand. Typically, TV shows are 30fps interlaced, while movies are 24fps non-interlaced, so beware of buying TV DVD boxed sets until Apple address this problem - that goes for X-Files, Simpsons, South Park, Star Trek, Monty Python's Flying Circus, and so on... :( Divx 5 full-screen playback is great, unless you try playing back really huge Divx movies such as 1024*768, which can get choppy. 640-wide Divx movies seem to play back fine. Battery life is wonderful as well; when I'm just word processing, I get about 5 hours of battery time. When I'm on wireless networking, browsing the internet and downloading things, I get about 4 hours. When I'm playing Wolfenstein, I seem to get about 3 hours, but I'm not positive (time flies). I'm playing with Virtual PC 4.04 right now, under OS 9. Windows 2000 feels just fine, like I'm using an older Pentium II or something, only the hard drive is much faster than an older Pentium II would have had. Browsing the net using IE6 feels just fine. I downloaded SP3 from outside the library at my college, since the library was closed. I was getting about 200KB/s on the built-in wireless. I'm only bothering with Virtual PC for kicks, and so I can shock my Mac-hating friends by running Windows full-screen on the iBook. Battery life is about the same as a PC laptop would have when running VirtualPC, funny enough - 2 to 2 1/2 hours. Just for kicks, I took my PC's USB keyboard, optical mouse, and 17" monitor, and attached them all to the iBook. You have to make sure to plug the mini-VGA adapter in all the way. Anyways, everything just worked immediately. No plug-n-play delay or beeping as with WindowsXP. I then purchased the $20 mini-VGA to composite video/S-Video adapter that Apple makes, and proceded to hook up my iBook to my friend's 27" TV. Once I had figured out to plug the darned thing ALL THE WAY into the iBook, the resolution switched to 800*600 automatically and the TV lit up with Mac OS X. I switched the resolution to 1024*768, but the TV really did look better at 800*600, so I switched it back. Additionally, the S-Video looked much cleaner and sharper than composite video. Anyways, for $20 you can turn your iBook into a portable DVD-player for use on mom's TV - cool. Considering that this iBook has 640MB RAM, CD-RW/DVD, a really great 40GB HD, an internal modem, 10/100 ethernet, internal wireless networking, a top-notch 32MB graphics card, firewire, 2 USB ports and VGA out, I think that $1600 was a total bargain. When you consider the features, size, weight, looks, and battery life, there is simply nothing even remotely as good in the Windows laptop world. When you consider that the primary operating system, OS 10.2, is built on an open-source Unix kernel, Windows is looking downright shady. In conclusion, the new iBooks are faster, cheaper, have better CD burning performance (16x), about twice as good of a graphics card, and a better operating system (OS 10.2.1, aka "Jaguar") than ever. I may use a Windows computer at home, but I'm using it less and less; Windows XP really feels junky compared to OS X. Don't get me wrong - my Windows computer is fast and reliable, but I've not really touched it since getting the iBook...
The price and the hype finally got to me. I wanted a laptop computer, and the ibook was the cheapest in the store, so I bought it. Here are some of my conclusions: 1) Mac OS is not all that much easier to use than windows. In fact, it is less convenient in some cases. I find it harder to navigate and find my files. 2) The ibook comes with only 128 megs of RAM. If you use a Windows machine, you can go almost anywhere for a RAM card to upgrade. However, once you enter Club Mac, you need to hunt down a RAM card, or buy it from Apple's web site. I made a special trip to Manhatten to buy the card at a store called Tekserve. At Tekserve, you are issued a number, depending on what kind of help you need. You then wait until your number is called. It took me about 1 hour to get my RAM card. 2.5) Putting in the RAM card is not as easy as it looks in the instructions! You need a VERY small Phillips screwdriver with a sharp point at the end to open the RAM shield, which is located under the keyboard. Then insert the card, replace the RAM shield, insert the tiny screws back in, screw them in gently, and allign the keyboard just right, and snap back in place. I had help with this, not being a do it yourself type by nature. 3) Apple is getting rid of their free itools web stuff. Now if you want to participate in .Mac (Dot Mac, the new itools) you will need to pay $100.00/yr! They can keep their FTP space and @mac.com email address! 4) Battery life is pretty good, especially if you adjust down the screen brightness. However, to get the battery charged, I have to wiggle the charger plug around until it turns orange. Why should I need to wiggle it? It should just start charging on contact. The charger gets HOT, especially if you are using the ibook while charging. I do not recommend doing this. The ibook also gets pretty warm while using it. Overall, while I am mostly satisfied with this computer, I do not understand what all the hype is about. iphoto has crashed on me several times, and locked up the machine. The email program that is included is terrible, and crashes every time I use it. Luckilly, Mozilla comes with its own mail program, which i now use. I suppose lifetime Mac users could give me a very good reason as to why this computer only has a delete button, which works like a backspace button on a Windows computer, and no way to delete from a position in front of a letter or word. However, to me, this is a major pain. I suppose I am the Grinch of the Mac world, but I do not need bouncing icons in my dock. Animation is now off, thank you very much. I can also live without the icons ballooning up when I run my mouse over them. Oh yes, if you are a fan of light up apples on the back of your machine, making you an Apple billboard if you use the machine in public, then by all means, get one of these.
IBook 500Mhz searchers....dont' sell yourself short. There is a BIG difference between the 500 and the 600 in the Ibook, and I will give you the specifics to make the right choice.....which is the one I made. I have seen the 500's going for pretty cheap (about $1000 to $1200), and I really was looking to get into the Mac market. As a former PC user, I was getting sick and tired of the instability of a product called Windows. I really liked 2000, because it was headed in the right direction, but then I saw XP and realized I had used my last PC OS. I sold all of my PC's, and wanted to use the funds to get what I really wanted.....a portable, multi-function, multi-tasking system that did not run windows. Mac seemed the likely choice. My boss owns a 550 Mhz TiBook, so I was really curious about one of those. However, my research led me to believe that this choice had more drawbacks than just the price....there were issues with the DVD front loader, and it's ability to take a hit was rebuked by other reviewers. I just cold not justify an extra $600 for an extra 3 inches of screen, so I looked into the new Ibook 600Mhz. The most noticable difference in the 600 from the 500 is the speed jump. 100Mhz usually isn't a noticable difference, but looking under the hood gives you an idea why it is considerably faster. The bus speed was increased from 66Mhz in the 500 to 100Mhz in the 600. This easily gives you a 15-20% increase in performance. The 600 supports both PC 100 and PC 133 SDRAM, which also increases the speed of the applications you run (this is related to the fact that the bus can support the peripherals running at 100Mhz). The 600 supports up to 640 MB of Ram, giving you enough memory to run critical apps smoothly. My advice....spend the extra bucks and get the 600. The only drawback to the Ibook in general is that the screen is a 12.1 " TFT, as compared to the TiBooks massive 15.2 " viewable screen. At only 4.9 pounds, this is one of the most powerful notebooks I have seen that weigh less than 5 pounds. I support many notebooks at work, and there is just no comparison between this notebook and all of the P III Ghz notebooks. The Ibook 600 leaves them all in the dust.....and they hate the fact I have FireWire!
 I'm like the guy in the tv ad---a film maker, started with apple, switched to windows for 5 years...and two weeks ago, came back to mac. I got the 12.1 inch Ibook G3, and I think I can be helpful here for those in windows world considering the move. Here's my best shot: -First, this is far more fun to use. Youdon't need a manual, it all just works just by doing the obvious things. -I hate that it is bright white...wish it was metal, but I love that it has virtually no switches, buttons, lcd indicators, blah blah. You turn it on, you use it. The bad thing is the touchpad. Mine is very erratic, sometimes freezing, sometimes releasing, sometimes the cursor actually just dissapears. I've grown to attach a wireless mouse. -The PHENOMENAL thing, well worth the switch---is that this thing works instantly without configuring, setting up, doing much of anything. I even installed Road Runner cable modem in my apartment, plugged the mac in, and it simply worked. I didn't need one of the 3 cd roms that supposedly were required to be installed. Same with two different printers and a digital camera. Plug and Play is the truth here, nothing like what windows puts you through. -The software is truly fabulous. At first I was thinking "oh, jeeze, now I have to go pay $500 for microsoft office", but you don't. Appleworks 6 contains everytthing you need and it works intuitively. Word processing is just like MS Word. Mail works even better. Itunes is totally amazing, the absolutely best music manager on earth. Just wait til you plug in an Ipod and instantly/automatically syncs up. -Little quirks that annoy: The usb ports are both on the left side, meaning if you plug in a mouse, yoiu have to wrap the cord around theback of the computer. I use a wireless (which also plugged and played without pestering loading any software). The ac adaptor plugs in on the right, 1/8 inch from the dvd drawer, so the cord often gets in the way. The ac adaptor itself is smaller than most and has a handy wrap-around device for the cord that goes to the computer, but they totally neglect a place to store the cord that goes to the outlet. It becomes an unruly mess. -The computer comes with 128 megs of ram, which you really need to upgrade immediately. There is one open slot for more ram. I bought a 512 ram card for $79 over the internet, giving me a total of 640. Might as well when it's that cheap. Apple charges $200 for the same card. -IMovie is fun for simplistic video editing. I'm using Final Cut Pro which rivals a $40,000 avid system. Battery life is not 5 hours. I don't know where they came up with that number,but it's a total lie. I have done 3 hours and 20 minutes max. Finally, tech support. This is a 100% full fledged joke. You cannot even find a phone number to call. You have to use this ridiculous "question" system to search for answers to questions, few of which even relate to the topic. And when you try to go deeper and really need help---they have the audacity to send you to a page where you can order extended warranties. Apple really should be ashamed of this dismal support. If you want to see online support done well, go to fujitsu.com where they have live chat with technicians. Anyway, I am enjoying the experience, and I'm finding mac a lot of fun to learn and put through its paces. At $1299 , it's a real bargain, and I feel that I can recommend this laptop higher than any I've had to date, including the Fujitsu 2100 and the Thinkpad x23.
Apple has once again proved that they are in the drivers seat when it comes to innovation. The iBook is a great inexpensive choice for a dependable, small-enough-to-be-packed-around, laptop - for Mac users and PC users alike. History I been a PC user since PCs first hit the scene - ever since the 80's. My only experience with Macs in general was back in college in the early 90's - and that was only to get the occasional paper done. In short, I have no bias towards Apple or Macs in general. In fact, I've probably had a negative bias against them since they were so unfamiliar. With the release of OS X and its high marks, I decided to give a Mac a try. I was looking for a laptop with enough power to get things done, but small enough to be 'lug-able' to business meetings. The iBook, it turns out, was the perfect choice. Pros The Price: I found a used iBook on eBay, so my expenses will differ from yours, but iBooks are a great deal, in my opinion. Why spend $2000 on a Dell or a Gateway when you can get a much slicker machine for less? A 'fully loaded' iBook runs around $1500 new. The basic model can be found for closer to $1000. I ended up finding the 'loaded' model on eBay for $1100. You mileage may vary. The Operating System: As I mentioned, I'm normally a PC user. I am very proficient in Windows and have been using Win9x for years. The switch to OS X was not hard. Once you get used to main menubar at the top of the screen (individual windows typically don't have their own 'imbedded' menubar on a Mac), navigation is pretty easy. The new 'dock bar' is pretty cool, and the overall look is very stylish. I was slightly disappointed that the basic colors and 'look' can't be customized very much. Surprising - but the default look couldn't get much better anyway. Window scrollbars and 'hotkeys' are also a little different. But this isn't a review of OS X, so let's move on. Let's suffice it to say that my iBook runs OS X very nicely (384 Megs of RAM). The 'Look': You can't beat the look of the all-white iBook. It just looks superior to other laptops. The whole thing folds into a box about the same size as an inch-thick sheet of standard paper. The first-generation iBooks with the clam-shell design looked like toys to me. This new version looks like a marvel. Co-workers definitely notice when you crack open the beautiful iBook at a meeting. The 'Feel': I'm used to desktop machines, so I figured I would have trouble dealing with a compact keyboard and a trackpad. Both have caused me little regret. The keypad is very nice for a laptop (it 'gives' a little too much in the center - oh well), and the trackpad is fine compared to other laptop trackpads. I actually don't even use an external mouse, which makes traveling with the iBook easy. The Accessories: My iBook came with the Combo Drive (combination CD reader, CD burner, DVD player). If you can afford this accessory, get it. I've played CDs and DVDs without problem and burned several CDs. While the CD burn speed isn't great, who needs to burn a CD in 2 minutes? I only need to burn CDs once in a while. If it takes 10 minutes, who cares? The screen is a beauty. Crystal clear and vivid. Some complain that it's too small. I agree that real estate is lacking when I've got a lot of applications open, but that's where the dock bar comes into play. The screen size is a limitation of the overall laptop size. I'm OK with a small screen because the overall size of the laptop is perfect. For ports, the iBook comes with a built-in 56K modem. For us non-highspeed-internet customers, it works fine when dialing up my ISP. The built-in ethernet port connects easily and flawlessly to my company's Microsoft-based network. Two USB ports and a firewire port ensure that it's easy to add external components. Applications: I've got Microsoft Office X on the iBook, so I'm covered when it comes to office and productivity applications. If I wasn't able to run Office, I'd be disappointed. I'm not much of a gamer, but it seems that most quality games eventually become available on the Mac. Cons Hard Drive: I wish my iBook came with a larger hard drive. 10 gigs just isn't very large these days. The new ones come with 15 gigs (I believe). I suppose I could upgrade someday. Speed: OS X is a state-of-the art OS and takes a decent machine to run it. 98% of the time I'm not disappointed by the speed the iBook manages OS X and the applications. Occasionally there's a definite lag - but that beat the occasional crash on a Wintel machine. Summary PC users, take the plunge. You'll be happy you did. The iBook is a truly viable alternative - and a better alternative in many ways - to the Windows-based laptop.
This machine, like most Apples, really is a snap to use right out of the box. It comes with a phone cord and an AV-out cable for use with a projector or the like. In less than 5 minutes I was online and surfing the web. Right out of the box, no problems. Having had this machine now almost a year, I can truly say it's exactly what I needed. I use it for just about everything. At the time, it probably should have come with more memory out of the box, but that was easily remedied, since memory prices were so low for a while. More memory helped, especially with OS X taking up so much of it. From what I've read, the machine is not going to be easily upgradeable; however, I can't see this being a problem anytime soon for me. The screen may seem small, but the resolution makes up for that. It feels like I'm working on a much bigger screen. And the color of the screen is brilliant. The machine itself looks really cool. It's a long way from my old 1400c I used to have. Additionally, that machine was a brick. This iBook is incredibly light! I felt like I was breaking my wrist every time I picked up my 1400, but this iBook is just the opposite. The outer white surfaces of the machine do tend to get scuffed a little, but this is a computer after all. One is probably going to be a little more careful with it than a duffel bag. Since I got my iBook I've gotten a digital video camera and a digital still camera. Both are a whiz to use with my iBook. No drivers needed for either cam. And with iPhoto, Apple's digital photo software, one literally just has to plug in their cam and the machine immediately recognizes it, fires up the software, and is ready to go. I really do like this machine. I'll probably keep it longer than any other machine I've had.
"Describe everything that comes in the box with this laptop." Out of the box was a 700 MHz iBook G3, power adapter, monitor out cable, installer CDs, some software, some manuals. Preinstalled is iPhoto, iTunes, iMovie, and Appleworks software suite, "Did the laptop work perfectly out of the box?" Worked perfect, simply needed to setup a user account, nothing to install. I was ripping songs, importing photos, surfing the internet in ten minutes. Never easier. "Does it have a fast processor but little RAM or some other weakness?" Comes with 128 MB of RAM standard and I had 256 MB preinstalled, there's only one RAM slot. Processor is fast enough to play Unreal Tournement and Warcraft III with decent framerate. Photoshop ran as well as my G4 desktop. How upgradeable is this laptop? Not too upgradeable. I can switch the 256 MB RAM with 512 MB when it gets cheap enough. Add in a Airport card later on. I don't think the processor or harddrive is upgradeable, maybe later on. Ignore the specs for a moment and describe how fast the laptop feels. It is fluid, runs OS X perfectly. Internet loads faster on this machine than on my desktop even though the connection is the same. I can't explain it. Is the laptop light and easy to travel with? Yes, this is a light laptop, I am used to nine pound monsters, the iBook has some heft to it, about as heavy as a medium side text book. The small size lets me throw it in my backpack every day with no worries.
 Truly, you can not find a group more devoted to their computers than Mac addicts. Still, there must be a reason. Haven't you heard the joke where if Microsoft built cars, "Apple computers would make a car that was solar-powered, twice as reliable, and five times as fast, but would run on only 5% of the roads"? The "dual-USB" iBook is the next generation of Apple's original iBook which, though eye-catching, was panned by many as being too heavy and unnecessarily large given it's 12.1-inch screen. Taking styling cues from the Powerbook G4 Titanium, Apple has abandoned the candy-colored design scheme for a more understated elegance. The changes are more than just skin deep, however, and with the recent revision, the iBook is even better! The new iBook sports a 600Mhz G3 processor with a 100Mhz FSB (improved from the initial 500Mhz/66Mhz), a standard hard drive of 12GB (upgraded from the original 10GB), a 12.1-inch TFT screen with resolutions up to 1,024x768, two USB ports, one Firewire port, built in Tbase10/100 Ethernet, and 56K internal modem. It also sports an 8Mb RAGE Mobility 128 graphics chip; an improvement over the candy-colored iBooks. All that in an under-5 lb package. Apple recently announced a larger version with a 14-inch screen, but same resolution; this should really be viewed as something of a change for the worse. One of the best aspects of the iBook is it's portability, so increasing its size without increasing the "desktop size" is an improvement most can do without. The iBook also comes in a variety of configurations. You can choose a basic CD-ROM drive (on 500/66 machines only), a CD-RW, a DVD-ROM, or a combo drive. Obviously, these get progressively more expensive, although with price drops across the board, the iBook is more affordable than ever! So the real questions is, what should make YOU go out and buy one? Let me weight the pros and cons... THE PROS: 1) Form factor! Apple has a corner on the market when it comes to style. How many laptops elicit double-takes? The iBook sure does. And not in the same way the old technicolor toiletseat models did. The best part is that Mac owners go so far as to customize their iBooks with paint jobs and other mods. But that's neither here nor there... 2) It's petite! The iBook's footprint is, literally, barely larger than an 8.5x11 sheet of paper. It slips right into my book bag between my magazines and my papers. And with a weight of under 5 pounds, it weighs considerably less than most college textbooks these days! 3) It's stable! I don't even want to get into the nightmares I've had with Windows ME on my HP desktop. And now that I've upgraded to Windows XP, I've traded up for a completely different set of problems. I've had my iBook for the same length of time, and I have had a mere FRACTION of the headache. "Solar-powered, twice as reliable, and five times as fast" indeed! 4) The price is right! Apples are becoming more and more competitively priced everyday! You can get a rock basic iBook 500/66 for under a grand, but I'd recommend springing for at LEAST the DVD-ROM if not the combo drive. Even so, the most expensive model (which boasts a screen 2" bigger diagonally) is well under the $2000 mark. 5) FIREWIRE! Only the high-end PC's boast built-in Firewire, or IEEE 1394 as they like to call it. Macs have them standard, and if you've ever tried to move a big load of info over USB, you'll know how helpful it is to have a transfer speed of up to 400Mbps. That's up to 30times FASTER than USB. Oh, and did I mention that Apple invented it? I can't comment on tech support because I've never needed them. Then again, isn't the BEST tech support the one that you never need? THE CONS: 1) Not the speed demon the Titanium PowerBook is. As much as I love the iBook, I have to admit that its speed is sort of middle-of-the-road. In other words, don't plan on doing any heavy duty data-crunching or 3D modeling on this. The G4 PowerBooks are much better suited for that sort of thing. BUT they are also bigger, heavier, and much more expensive. Still, with the bump up to 600Mhz and a 100Mhz system bus, they're moving in the right direction. For those of you looking to buy, the speed increase is very minor, but definitely noticeable. Think about what you need before you buy. If you go for a 500/66 you could save a couple hundred bucks in the process! 2) Apples come at a premium. In a world where PC's are a dime a dozen, Macs do come at something of a premium. It's pretty minor, but RAM upgrades are a little more expensive than those for PC's. Why? Beats me. 3) Being a swan in a world of ducks. Let's face it, Bill Gates is a marketing genius. Windows drones are everywhere. What that means is that you'll have to look a little bit harder for software or compatible drivers. You'll have to do a little extra work to take full advantage of a built-for-Windows LAN and print to network printers. Hey, does anything worth fighting for ever come easy?
 IBM's T series is incredible! Mar 18 '01 Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Thin, light, blazing fast, awesome screen and great options! Cons Price...OUCH! The Bottom Line After shopping around for months and checking out every major brand, IBM still stands out as the best. Their reputation for quality and durability is without a doubt, unmatched. Full Review Introduction: I've been shopping for a notebook for about two months and I've had my eye on IBM's sleek T series. It's thin and light which makes it a great notebook for those who travel a lot or, like myself, take it to classes. Specs (Model 2647-4BU) and Comments: * 14.1" TFT (1024x768) The 14.1" TFT screen is easy on the eyes and is one of the biggest available on such a compact notebook. * PIII 800mhz This is almost the fastest Intel processor currently available for laptops. I believe the fastest is 850mhz. * 128mb RAM Plenty of RAM -- upgradable to half a gig! * 20GB HDD I won't be running out of space for a VERY long time! This laptop has more hard drive space than my desktop machine and my work machine. * 8x DVD / Floppy (swappable) This is my first DVD player/drive and I'm having a lot of fun with it. There is no hardware decoder but the machine is so fast that you don't really need one. There is only one drive bay but it is hot swappable (you can swap the DVD/floppy while the computer is on.) * 3com ethernet/modem combo No problems here -- the ethernet card works under Linux but I haven't tried the modem yet. I know that the Lucient modem that IBM puts in some of their Thinkpads is a Winmodem. I'm not sure about this one (it's a 3com card). Other comments IBM didn't skimp out on this laptop. Their reputation for quality shines in the T series notebooks. The top and bottom covers are titanium composite plastic, making it tough and lighter than most other notebooks. IBM is known for putting very solid feeling keyboards on their Thinkpads and the T series is yet another example of this. The trackpoint was a must for me as well! Their blue scroll button is very convenient. The status lights (hdd activity, numlock, capslock, power, battery, etc) are backlit and very easy to see in low light -- very nice! And here is something I've never seen on a notebook. A light to illuminate the keyboard in the dark! Seriously, there is a light just above the display that you can turn on to give yourself a little extra light to help you type. Pictures: I have a few pictures on my website: http://www.wubbie.org/pictures/thinkpad/ Please ignore the messy desk. :) If anyone wants to see some close up pictures or a shot of a certain part of the laptop, just e-mail me! Recommended Yes
 I'm thinking this is a great laptop Feb 10 '01 Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Great screen, good amount of RAM, tech support is more than adaquate Cons locks sometimes The Bottom Line I'm very pleased with this computer, good display, good sound, etc. Full Review Value for Price: 9/10 The overall value for the price of this system is not the best. It comes with 128 megs of RAM, which is good. The display panel is more than adaquate... it gives you a brilliant display, and it's 12.1 in, which works well with it's theme of portability and sleekness. Display panel: 10/10 I can't knock the quality of the display, as it is brilliant. If they had taken the route of making 14.1, it would have just lost a lot in portability Sound: 8(10 w/quality speakers attached)/10 I was fairly impressed with the sound of the integrated sound. It is surprisingly full, and robust. It still sounds great with the internal speakers, but if you have a pair of quality BA speakers then it really shines. Battery Life: 10/10 I was very impressed with the dual battery support of this machine. It made it so recharging isn't daily thing like it is on many other laptops. I can actually go quite a while w/o recharging... impressive, Sony really nailed this feature! Reliability: 9/10 My system runs Windows 2000, which is inherently more stable than Win 9x, so I noticed crashes less frequently. In fact there were not many crashes at all. It is very stable, and maintains a rather high speed when other systems might get bogged down. Overall: 9/10 What a system. After many disappointing laptop purchases in my life finally one that met my high expectations. Thanks IBM. Recommended Yes
 A Pleasure To Use Mar 15 '01 Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Light weight, overall design, reliability Cons Price The Bottom Line This is a winner. Full Review The IBM T20 is one of the most satisfactory machines I have had the pleasure of using. I believe it has been superseded by the T21 which appears to be the same but with enhancements such as more hard disk space and a faster processor; the machines can be compared at www.ibm.com. (Warning: The IBM web site is surprisingly difficult to navigate; a call to 1-888-SHOP-IBM ext.7000 might be just as good an idea as visiting the web site.) I bought the T20 model because it is light; I haven’t been disappointed. I think there is a big difference between 5 pounds and 8 pounds when you’re lugging it around. I like the T20’s 14" screen size vs. the 12" screen size of most lightweight laptops. On a crowded plane, I sometimes wish the screen were a bit smaller but that is only a fraction of the time I use the computer. The clarity of the images and fonts on the screen is excellent; I prefer it to CRT monitors. IBM has always been famous for the feel of its keyboards which, I suppose, grew out of its experience making the best typewriters years ago. The keyboard of the T20 is no exception, surprising for a laptop. It is a pleasure to type on, even for a hacker like me! Connection to the Internet couldn’t be easier. There are jacks in the rear for phone and Ethernet cable. I use both and like not having a PCMCIA card with the cable sticking out the side. There are PCMCIA slots, of course, but I haven’t had a reason to use them yet. Battery life is good but I’ve never seen it last over 3 hours at IBM would have you believe. I count on a good two hours of availability between charges. A few extras seem to be more useful than I would have expected. There are volume control buttons that I use often. There is a tiny, bright light above the screen that illuminates the keyboard which comes in handy sometimes on a darkened plane. The snooze function kicks in automatically and quickly when you close the cover. The DVD drive plays movies but I have rarely used it for that. I used the infrared port to transfer a number of files to another laptop; it worked very quickly and easily. The only disappointment is that I cannot use the scroll wheel on my mouse for some reason. The IBM TrackPoint, which is located in the middle of the keyboard, works very well and is excellent on a plane, for example, but I prefer a mouse otherwise and it would be nice to use its wheel. It is a pleasure to use a device that is well designed, looks good and functions so well. Recommended Yes
 The new laptop with the cool new case by: elsyan (Tue Jun 6 '00) Pros: durable, solid machine, light and portable, powerful, many options Cons: low availability, high price Pick up the T20 and you can feel how sturdy it is. The new titanium (?) outside case feels more solid and metallic than in previous models. That feeling of solidness and reliability echoes through. The T20 is a robust, high quality unit that finally conquers the desktop. Here's my configuration: 4.6 lbs travel weight, 14.1" screen, 700 mhz pIII Speedstep, 128MB ram, 12GB, 8MB video, DVD, integrated 56k and 10/100 ethernet windows 2k as with all IBM's, a large variety of configurations are available all the way from this one (high end) to the low end w/ 24x CD, 13.3" screen, 650mhz processor, and windows 98 for about a thousand less. Physically the machine is intelligently laid out with large keys and my favorite IBM trackpoint device. Once you use one, you won't go back to a pad again, although I admit it does take getting used to. The colors on the screen are crisp and bright at any resolution. Also, the system sounds great. Yes, this means that this is the machine for you if you want to watch DVDs on the road. With w2k, the system boots up fast and is extremely stable. I had no problems getting any of my software to install and run. With average use I was able to squeeze out an impressive 3+ hours on the base battery on one charge. Not too shabby. As usual, I found that the extra "internet" buttons added by IBM don't help very much but they can be remapped to more useful tasks. One gripe is that the new ultraport connector takes up valuable port real estate from perhaps additional USB or other connectors. It remains to be seen whether or not IBM and other vendors will release significant equipment that will take full advantage of it. I haven't gotten a chance to use the S-video out jack but I've heard that it isn't completely up to part. I don't really see how useful it is, given the monitor out. Furthermore, the port replicator/dock are still rather klunky and the unit fits in the dock rather awkwardly. Stay away unless you really want to spend the extra $500. If you can find it and can afford it, this is truly the first machine that I've used that classifies as an ultraportable without any sacrifices (unlike equivalent models from Dell or Compaq that weigh much more). IBM support is as always top notch and helpful. Throw away your desktop (keeping that large 21" monitor !) because other than that, you won't need it again.
 Expensive, but excellent Dec 22 '00 (Updated Dec 23 '00) Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Excellent build quality, lightweight, everything works out of the box Cons Light on application software, expensive Full Review OK, I think this is going to be long review, so brace yourself. I have been researching computers for 2 years now, and have never bought one because I've always had a laptop from work decided it would be too much of a hassle to maintain two machines, not to mention the fact that they become worthless in about 2 to 3 years with advances in technology. I do have a laptop even from my present employer, but nevertheless, I chose to buy one now because I thought I needed a machine to start storing personal data like pictures from my digital camera and other stuff. Even though this is my first computer, I've used several different laptops over the years that were given to me by my employers. I've used several models of Thinkpads a couple of years ago (forgotten their model numbers), then a Toshiba Tecra, an NEC Versa LX, and presently have a Thinkpad 600x. When choosing a computer I decided I needed a great screen (1024x768 TFT), portability, good build quality, a good warranty, at least a 10G hard disk, at least 128 MB RAM, and something with which to do backups. I really wanted a CD-RW drive, but I found that it wasn't available with most laptops running Windows 2000... I wanted Windows 2000 because of its stability. So, I decided not to worry about backups for the short term, but I hope to get a PCMCIA microdrive sometime in the future; they are available in sizes up 1 GB so I think that should work. I liked the T20 because it seemed to offer the best of all worlds. A close contender would have been the Sonys, but they lost out on weight and the tiny 1 year warranty that they offer. I didn't like the Dell's because they're heavy and they lack the aesthetics of the IBMs and the Sonys. I fantasized about the ultralights (like the Sony Z505 series, not Marlboros :-)), but decided that the screen is too small... I didn't want to be squinting all the time. I thought about desktops and the value they offer, but decided to go for a laptop so that I can take it with me on a trip if I so choose. Because laptops are somewhat more prone to problems that are very expensive to fix (such as an issue with the screen, or keyboard), it makes sense to get a long enough warranty that covers you through the expected "useful" life of the machine. The T20 comes with a 3 year warranty. I figure in 3 years technology will have moved ahead so much, that I'll probably need a newer machine anyway. So the 3 year warranty offers an adequate peace of mind. I've owned my T20 for about 4 weeks now. It took about 2 weeks to arrive from the time I ordered it. The T20 weighs in at 5 lbs, comes with a splendid 1024x768 pixel TFT 14.1" screen, and an excellent build quality of keyboard and chassis. I got a 128 MB memory upgrade (to 256 MB total), and added in the Mini PCI Ethernet/Modem combo card. The machine was easy to use right out of the box. When you power up, it guides you through a setup which should be easy to follow if you're familiar with Windows... I didn't consult any of the documentation so I'm not able to comment on how good it is. I loaded my DSL software on it, and was on the net almost instantly. One of the things that struck me as odd was that there were virtually no preloaded applications or tools. No tools to zip/unzip files, and even the Lotus SmartSuite that is advertised with the computer was not preloaded, nor were the CDs available. I called IBM and they told me I had to request the CD by phone, and they would ship it for free... but it has to be requested by calling a number that is on one of the sheets of paper that comes with the laptop. I did actually receive the Lotus SmartSuite CD and have installed it and it works great. For the price of this machine, a Dell or a Sony would have had lots more software on it, but I think it's OK to pay a premium for a machine of this quality. It did come with Microsoft Outlook Express. I liked the way the system had been formatted into one big "C:\" drive. I installed and uninstalled a lot of freeware, because of which I started encountering some weird errors on bootup. So I decided to reinitialize (restore) the machine to out-of-the-box state. They have a bootable CD-ROM for that which worked out great! I was very impressed and pleasantly surprised with how painless the process was. I was expecting to go through hell. The trackpoint mouse is extremely crisp and accurate, and while I feel that touchpad mouses create less stress in the fingers (the NEC had that), I like the precise control that the trackpoint gives. There's no accidental click and select that used to happen to me with the touchpad. I also like the nifty "ThinkLight" that illuminates the keyboard when turned on for easier typing in darkness. The keyboard is beautiful... it makes me feel like a better typist than I really am !! The "Thinkpad" button just above the keyboard brings up useful tips and help menus, another really cool feature. One thing that I haven't been able to figure out yet is why I can't connect to my Pacbell DSL if I put the machine into hibernate mode and then wake it up. I need to research the issue a little more, although most of the time, I just shut the machine down, or leave it running with the power cord (the screen and harddisk will go to sleep after a certain period of inactivity). [12/23/00 After researching the issue, I found that it was a problem with the DSL software that Pacbell had provided. Upgrading the software fixes the problem]. Just be prepared to spend your own money for application software because as I mentioned earlier, it comes with virtually none. The only think that I've bought so far is Norton Antivirus, but I haven't had the time to install it. I've loaded some freeware such as Adobe Acrobat Reader, emacs, an SSH client, etc. I remember calling IBM tech support just once... I can't remember what the issue was, but I was on hold for more than half an hour. So, if you're planning to use tech support, take a few lessons in patience before you pick up that phone! Plus they weren't all that helpful, and I ended up getting the issue resolved on my own. However, from what I've read about customer support for most other brands (Sony, Dell, etc.), the customer support with them isn't anything to write home about either. All in all, I've really enjoyed the T20 thus far and would wholeheartedly recommend this machine to anybody looking for a performance portable without compromise. Recommended: Yes
 Even the Greatest Things Have Their Flaws Sep 12 '01 Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 4.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Powerhouse, crisp & clear screen, sturdy feel, excellent DVD playback Cons Not the lightest, difficulty changing OS, graphics lacking The Bottom Line A great notebook for professional work, but loaded with enough power and features for occassion leisure entertainment as well. Full Review Hi There! Let Me Introduce You To… The laptop that is hailed as a top choice in the world of notebooks. This machine is for the professional user and has some very wonderful points in its favor, but it falls short of being the perfect laptop. The IBM ThinkPad T20 can come in a variety of configurations. Just to clarify, this particular machine I am reviewing is equipped with 256MB RAM (upgraded) and runs at 850mhz. It runs Windows 2000 pre-installed. We bought this machine from a friend in new condition. It came with a power adapter, Intel 10/100 PCMCIA Network Card, Restore CD’s and a single battery. No docking station was included. The Good… This machine is powerful. The T20 doesn’t miss a beat. DVD movies play very well on this notebook, even with a multitude of system tray programs running background. I have also tested game performance. Quake III runs very well on this system, but not at full detail mode. The graphics card is a bit lacking (ATI Rage Mobile 16MB), but as I stated before this notebook was intended for the business professional. But of course even the business professional needs to relax, so rest assured you can play Quake III, but it won’t look as great as it would on a game-oriented machine. The colors are vibrant and the test is crisp on this beautiful screen. The notebook itself feels very sturdy. The ThinkPad T20 is slimmer than the majority of notebooks, but isn’t exactly the lightest notebook I’ve even held. The Bad… I enjoy using Win98SE. It is the most stable version of consumer Windows in my opinion. Being that Windows 2000 is a bit too professional for my needs; I wanted to replace it with my Win98SE OS. This was a problem for Mr. T20. The main problem is detecting the hardware on the machine. The Restore CD has the drivers for all the hardware, but it also has the drivers for all the hardware for many different lines of IBM notebooks. This way IBM can distribute the same CD with many of their notebooks with less hassle for them, more hassle for us. Since there are 40+ directories, and the device manager shows undetectable hardware as unknown, how do you know to look for modem drivers or sound card drivers? After several hours of tinkering, I was forced to restore the system back to Win2000. So if you plan on installing another OS when you get this machine, it might be a hassle. The speakers aren’t much to speak of, which is common with notebooks. If you enjoy those DVD movies, than I suggest an external pair of speakers to go along for the ride. The notebook doesn’t come with an abundance of software, and for what the retail price goes, I would appreciate few more perks. The Details… If you’ve owned a notebook before than you know there are two basic types of devices that notebooks usually include as the primary mouse. You have the touch pad type and the "Eraser-head" type. This one is the eraser-head and I personally do not enjoy it. The T20 features PS/2 ports for external mouse/keyboard, an s-video out port, VGA out, 2 PCMCIA slots, internal 56k and USB. With this notebook you have both floppy and DVD drives. Keyboard configuration is a standard compact layout with some proprietary IBM ThinkPad functions. You do have buttons to control volume and mute. Battery life is fairly good. Approximately 3 hours on a fully charged battery. That is plenty of time to finish the average movie and check your e-mail. I would recommend the IBM T20 to any professional as an excellent mobile computer, with qualities that make it ideal for a work-related role, but also carries enough features to be a part time entertainment center. Recommended Yes
 The Online Insider Looks at the IBM T20Apr 03 '01 (Updated Apr 05 '01)Author's Product RatingEase of Use: Quality of Tech Support: ProsFast, slim, and lightConsCost may be prohibitiveThe Bottom LineAll in all, a great machine for business. Light and easily transportable, with solid construction.Full ReviewWhen I began to work more from outside the office, I looked at a few options for a home machine.I knew that I needed the freedom of a laptop, but I wasn't sure which one. I had already been through the trials of the Sony Viao (great looking machine, but it has an annoying habit of losing everything at the worst time).The laptop needed to be small and light. Sometimes I need to take the train into the city -- and bulky laptops are an impediment. It also needed to NT compatible, which knocked many laptops out of contention.I talked to many of my friends and read many epinions about laptops and came to a solution -- I would try the IBM T20, which was the latest model. I was not disappointed.Here are the specs of the machine:Dimensions:The machine is small and light. It is just 13.1 in (W) x 10.6 in (H) x 1.8 (D) in and weighs 7.5 lbs.Display:The display is large -- 15 inch screen! It does have an active matrix display, though.Keyboard and Mouse:The IBM's keyboard is normal size, so you won't have the annoyance of your fingers not being able to find the right keys. Numbers and frequently used characters are hidden though...and you need to hit your function key to type these.One thing that you may have to get used to is the fact that all IBMs use the patented 'nipple' touch mouse, which can be an experience getting used to. I still prefer this over a glide pad or mouse-ball option.Clock Speed and RAM:The machine is powered by a 700 mHz Pentium III processor. It really moves and can double or triple task with no problem. As I configured it, the t20 has 128 megs of RAM, and this could be increased to 256, more than enough for standard applications like word and excel. And enough for apps like photoshop, too.Storage:An amazing 20 gigs!Color (Just like Henry Ford said):Any Color, Just So Long As It's Black.The Rest Of the Package:It comes standard with a 56 K modem and some ordinary graphics and sound cards. If you want a machine to play games on -- this is not it! The machine also ships with a swappable CDROM and 3" disc drive.HINT: It's important to have that 3" around, as you'll never know when you'll need it..sometimes the easiest way to transfer a file is still the old way.All told, the machine retailed for 3,400. I got it from CDW.Also, the machine came with no software installed. Since installing NT (and upgrading to Win 2000) are not easy, novices may need to purchase the machine with the OS and Windows tools installed, which will increase the price.As an aside, when you purchase computers or peripherals, you need to understand that your model is immediately worth less once you take possession of it. It's like driving a new car off the lot -- you lose 30% of the value straightaway. So my ultimate advice for anyone buying a notebook, desktop, printer or a scanner? Make sure you like what you've got, because the next best thing is already out there...that's just the nature of the market.RecommendedYes
 Dream Laptop for the Rich Jan 05 '01 (Updated Jan 05 '01) Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Power, DVD, light weight, great screen Cons Price, Ugly looks Full Review The IBM Think Pads are the standard machines for executives. They are usually powerful and costs tons. They are also black. They are small for the power which they harness. They should be great for everyone, if they only cost less… I was thrilled when my boss approved me for one of these beasts. From its specs this is a dream laptop. 700Mhz PIII, 12 Gigs HD and 256 MB of RAM, DVD!!, modem, Ethernet port, the options go on. When the thing finally arrived I could not wait to open it up and test it out. The T20 did not let me down. It is wonderful. Although I work in the computer industry, I am not a hardware techie. What I expect from this machine is its power to process data, a good size, light weight, long lasting battery power(3 hours!), and good service. T20's went beyond my expectations. Although today there are faster laptops in terms of processing power 700 Mhz is more than enough for me to crunch work on Excel, running Java intensive applications, or both while listening to my MP3's. The standard DVD drive is a blast. I can finally watch my favorite Maximus Decimus Meridus kicking butt while taking the train. Of course, watching movies or engaging in other Multimedia activities would not be enjoyable if the screen is too small. The T20 comes with a nice, 14 inch screen with great resolution. The only bad thing I would say about T20's display is its graphics card. It's equipped with a Savage 9 video card w/ 8 megs of RAM. That is good for all of the stuff I need to do for work but then I don't think I could play too many graphic intensive FPS (first person shooters, think Quake3) with this machine. Well, that doesn't matter because I shouldn't be playing games with a company machine anyways, even at home. Since I am not paying this (thank god) I ordered whole bunch of other options as well. Other than an additional 128 MB RAM I also ordered a docking station, extra keyboard, mouse, battery, carrying bag, electricity adapter and a few other things, all of which cost a bundle. The docking station alone costs close to $500 (enough to buy a PIII700 desktop). The total came out to be $4700. In today's world this is an astonishing price for a laptop because that is enough to buy at least 5 desktops with the same specs and 17in monitors. Even when compared to other laptops the T20 is also wayyyyy up there, beaten only by newer and more powerful Thinkpads. It is a relief therefor to know that you will get what you paid extra for. Before ordering the T20 I was also thinking about the Sony VIAO 700 Mhz laptop as well. One of my Co-workers has one and these things are cool. They are silver, small, and just as powerful if not more so than the T20. They cost about the same as the T20 and they even come with remote clickers which enables you to remotely go on the next page during Powerpoint presentations. They are lighter than the T20s too. T20 does have a better keyboard layout than the VIAO (easier to type on the T20) but the VIAO beats T20 on just about everything else. I did not buy the VIAO because company usually buys Thinkpads so support is better for the T20. If you are a serious Laptop buyer I would suggest you to take a good look at the VIAO as well. Overall I would recommend the T20 for just about everyone. It is not as good looking as the VIAO but it sure feels a lot sturdier and IBM's support is better than Sony's. The only reason why I don't buy one of these for myself is the price, which is probably the main reason why almost NO ONE has a T20. This machine is also unlikely to attract too much attention from others (I live in Boston, and lots of people carry around laptops), but it's what's inside which matters. Recommended: Yes
 Another Thinkpad Wonder Oct 04 '00 (Updated Oct 05 '00) Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Pros Awesome display, smart ports Cons Pricey Full Review I recently gave the Thinkpad 600X a rave review so how could a notebook really improve upon it? That was my attitude as I first opened the T20. I doubted that it could really be all that much better; instead, I figured it would be only marginally better and that, given the price premium, could wait a bit before being worth buying. In some respects, I'd say I was right. But at the same time, I was impressed by certain features that really made me glad to be a Thinkpad user. The main features that grabbed my attention (outside of the usual faster CPU) were: bigger display, gorgeous colors on the display, slightly lighter, built-in phone and network jacks (although the network jack needs a mini-PCI card to activate it), and better arrangement of ports. There are also some other neat frilly things like a keyboard light, dedicated volume switches, and a port on the display (that IBM says is for a video camera). To take a step back, the IBM Thinkpad T20 is a new line of IBM notebook computers. I personally think its a 600 series replacement but IBM still offers the 600 series so they are currently living in parallel. It's slightly larger than the 600X but actually weighs a little less due to the titanium-based case (which also sounds cooler). As I initially mentioned, the display is really one of the most outstanding features. It's now 14.1", very bright, and very white. I compared it side by side with my 600X and found that the T20's new display made me realize I've been looking at off-white all this time instead of real white. Even my desktop monitor didn't have such a perceptible difference. There are bigger displays but none as outstanding. I'd gladly sacrifice a little size to get the quality of the T20's LCD display. A bonus with the improved display is 8MB video RAM! Finally, you can play video intensive games from two years ago. I don't know why notebooks have lagged desktop so much in video RAM, but this is a welcome improvement from the 600 series 2.5 MB or 4 MB video RAM. Also making the T20 a truly worthwhile upgrade are all around the decreased weight and improved ports. The case is now made of some titanium composite. Is that real or just some marketing gimmick? It seems that everything is being made of titanium nowadways. But the fact is that the T20 is indeed lighter. I haven't tried sitting on either my 600X or the T20 so I won't vouch for crush-resistance. The ports have been tweaked and modified. It seems like a small change, but one that people who live with their notebooks will appreciate. Now, all the ports are on the back of the machine. This means no more octopus effect when moving your notebook. With my 600, when I move my notebook, I have my usb devices to the left, power to the rear, and network dongle to the right. With the T20, everything is to the rear. Very intelligent and very elegant. The T20 also features an inactive network port that can be activated with a mini-PCI card. I don't know what else is available as a mini-PCI card but it sounds cool. There's also a little port on the top of the screen that is supposed to be for a video camera. I don't have one so I can't comment on it's usefulness or lack thereof. The only things that were a slight let down were a slightly mushier keyboard. I have no idea why they would change their keyboards. IBM Thinkpads have always been widely applauded for having the best keyboard on a notebook in the industry hands-down. I'm also not too fond of the new shape with the slanted sides...that's just a personal preference so I wouldn't give it too much weight. I like the plain, boxy, utilitarian 600 series. I also don't know if there's a port for a second battery. If not, I'll be sorely disappointed. This is one of my favorite features of the 600 series -- the ability to have two batteries taking care of you on a coast-to-coast flight. Still, all things considered, the T20 is a worthy successor to the 600 series and worth the upgrade if you are on the verge of upgrades. If you are doing fine with your 600, you might want to hold off to see what other magic comes out of the Thinkpad series. Your major tempation? The new display. Don't look at it if you don't want to be tempted! Recommended Yes
 Suppose You Won A Lottery for $3000: The Way You Waist It Mar 12 '01 (Updated Mar 18 '01) Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 2.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Light weight, nice display, powerful profile Cons Price, internal design problem, mismatch with some software with default settings. The Bottom Line Can you risk your precious $3000 with a decent notebook which has some problems? Full Review As the title goes, let me assume you won a lottery. Also, let's assume you want to buy a very high-end light weight notebook especially by IBM. Then, you probably want to check out IBM Thinkpad T20. Otherwise.... I recently had a chance to try this notebook of one of my friends'. She was having a lot of problems with her IBM Thinkpad T20, and asked me to re-install everything for a couple of big dinners. The following opinion is based on the 3-day trial use during my maintenance of her computer. First of all, to be fair, I have to state that probably her IBM Thinkpad T20 is from a bad lot. Looking at other reviews, I might have to admit this product is not that bad as I describe below. Now, let me go to the details. I would like to divide my points into hardware part and software integration. PROBLEMS WITH HARDWARE The first thing I noticed with IBM Thinkpad T20 is that the hard drive part gets extremely hot even in a shot-time use. It is not a serious problem, but I didn't feel safe. Every one hour or so, I got an urge that I should shut down this computer, and let it rest for a while. Maybe this is due to the following reasons. Even though I am not doing anything and am setting the screen saver to run after 30 min., the hard drive is constantly accessed, and the disc is running all the time. I am not very familiar with when and how the hard drive is accessed. But their should be something strange, because there should not be many reasons for the machine to read out the information from the hard drive. Another thing, which is very serious, is due to its design. Long before I took care of this machine, my friend encountered a monitor problem, and send the machine back to the technical support. What turned out to be true was that the connector between monitor and the body was malfunctioning. The technical blamed my friend's rough treatment in opening and closing the lid. But if the connector gets damaged within two-month use by a female who paid whopping $3000, what seems to me very likely is that the problem is in the design itself. PROBLEMS WITH SOFTWARE INTERFACE Compared to other computers, this machine takes much longer time to boot and to shut down. This happened even after I re-installed the operating system, namely Windows Me. You can solve this problem by keeping the machine in the stand-by mode. But in that case, as I stated above, you have to deal with the consistent high temperature. Talking about the stand-by mode, this machine doesn't alert before it goes dark. This is not a big problem, but I would like this machine to be more user-friendly. It seems to me this machine with the default setting has some mismatch with some major software. This often demands you to re-boot the machine. You can solve this mismatch by customization. However, considering the fact that not many people are willing to change the system settings with their own knowledge, I guess many new users will have a lot of problems. OTHER COMMENTS Now, let's face the major problem. IBM Thinkpad T20 costs you a lot of money. As I just checked the latest prices, the refurbished ones go from $1700, and the brand new ones go from $2500. The prevailing price for new one is somewhere around $3000. (Note that you have to be very careful in choosing the store. Some stores are offering with a very low price tag, but they don't ship the product to you.) If you are one of the richest people, you will be able to risk your $3000 easily for a decent notebook. But these days when the computers are very cheap compared to several years ago, there is less reasons to buy a high-end notebook at this price. Moreover, if you have the extra $3000, you can buy one nice high-end desktop and one decent notebook. As a serious computer user, I don't understand why I should buy a very expensive notebook a monitor less friendly to your eyes. FINAL REMARKS If your IBM Thinkpad T20 comes from a good lot, it will make you happy. However this product seems to involve a lot of problems by default. So, I would rather not recommend you to risk your precious $3000 with IBM Thinkpad T20. Of course, if you have earned $3000 as the fast buck, and if you are loyal to IBM, you can try IBM Thinkpad T20.
 T20, what a machine Sep 19 '00 (Updated Jun 05 '01) Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Very fast, incredible screen display, nice appearance Cons Not so light and a little expensive The Bottom Line If you are looking for the ultimate in laptop performance and power. Look no further than the IBM T20. Full Review Well, what can I say about the T20 other than what a machine. I have used the 600 family, the 380 family, and the 570. I work with these systems all day. But one thing caught my attention most about the T20. For starters, the sleep mode has finally been fixed compared to its brothers. Now you can put your laptop into suspend mode with peace of mind that when you wake it, it won't have to be rebooted. Features such as the ThinkLight keyboard light allows you to work even in the dark, now this is amazing. Another interesting feature is the wireless communications options that give you greater freedom to work wherever you want to work via the infrared ports. Though, overall support is not quite the best I must say. I have had multiple issues with support and drivers from IBM, though finding the drivers on their site is fairly easy. The Assistant offers an online user's guide with a quick search engine, plus animated how-to demos including installing memory and more which makes it easier for the less computer savvy. Now they have Individual volume control buttons: up, down and mute, for quick and easy access. Thinkpad Button gives you one-button access to IBM and launches Access ThinkPad, the site where new updated drivers specifically for your laptop model can be downloaded. You can also download additional software to customize your laptop for the most ease of use. There are lots more interesting features, like the battery life. It can be in standby mode for hours longer than its brothers. Wireless features are amongst the best. After all, let�s face it, you buy a laptop for it's remote possibilities. Communications is easy with the integrated RJ-11 and RJ-45 ports for connectivity via modem or LAN for those of you who use it in the office. Also, the built in 56K modem for fast accurate connections. This is nice for when you need to have the bay slots available for additional PCMCIA cards you may need. I can continue promoting this laptop, but the truth is that it speaks for itself. After working so long with the IBM family, I have come to realize the T20 is one hell of a machine for the professional and the non-professional. I highly recommend it to anyone expecting allot from a laptop. Trust me, you won't to wrong. Recommended: Yes
 Think. The future is now. Nov 08 '00 Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Pros All-around great computer Cons This much quality costs a lot Full Review I wrote a review way back about the IBM A20. It blew me away. Last week my company placed my name on the first list for a T20. After several days of playing with my newest toy, I've come to the realization that IBM has built an almost perfect machine. Here's why: PIII 700 MHz - That's a lot of power to pack into a laptop. Any laptop. But the T20 stretches the bounds of reality by placing that power in a machine that weighs less than 5 pounds and is so quiet, I sometimes wonder if it's on. At this speed, the T20 is now my number one choice for desktop replacement. Add a power-saving technology to that power and you have a machine that adjusts to the many different laptop environments. "Speed-step" technology automatically adjusts processer speed when you are undocked to save your batteries. Bigger, better display - This machine does very well on my external 19" monitor with a resolution of 1280x1024 and has a laptop display with a native resolution of 1024x768 on a 14.1" TFT LCD. This is a very important factor for me since my main objective with a laptop is comlplete portability. I don't often go on the road, but I do like to take my computer with me when working at home or taking notes during a meeting. The T20 also boasts a dual-display function (LCD & CRT) but I have yet to try it since the capability of this function seems to be limited somewhat. Hot swap ultra bay - This is as easily said as done. You can hot swap your DVD or CD drives CD, extra storage, or 1.44 floppy on the fly. Sometimes it can be troublesome to have to drag your floppy dive around with you, but IBM took all of the headache out of switching drives. Tough! - Titanium composite case. I thought earlier Thinkpads were up to the job. This T20 looks like it could withstand a major pounding. The not-so-good column is very short, and boils down mostly to cost. This machine is top of the line and it is expensive. We choose to purchase these because we've had much less hardware problems and headaches with our Thinkpads. This Laptop is THE laptop I'd recommend for professionals on the go. The combination of strength, speed, and portability makes this machine a top choice.
 A SIZZLING NEW CONCEPT FROM IBM Sep 27 '00 Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Titanium Composite top and bottom covers, mobile pentium III processor featuring intel speedstep technology, and a battery that lasts up to 3.7 hours. Cons the mouse is too small (but external mouse's are available) Full Review Protected by Titanium Composite covers, ThinkPad T Series notebooks are the lightest, high performance mobile computers around today....amount many features....they have a Mobile Pentium III processor with Intel SpeedStep technology, and a battery that lasts up to almost 4 hours....and on top of it all it is only "4.7 pounds". I cannot believe the performance of this computer....i recently tested an IBM thinkpad t20....that was what us rednecks like to call "fully loaded". along with the 20 gig hard drive....it came equipped with 512 ram....the speed of it exceeded my desktop...which is a pentium 3...with 318 bytes of ram....this completely blew my mind.....it was actually faster, lighter, more efficient, more compact, and more stylish...than any desktop i have ever seen. You also have to option of wireless internet connection...which for people who are on the go is a must....i believe that this computer will be on top for a while....if IBM can produce this kind of technology....who knows what they will have in the future.....many people i know complain about not having enough room on their computer....or it being too slow.....well let me tell ya...whoever purchases one of these machines...will never complain again. If anything this system has too much space....and is too fast...but i think that kind of room, and speed...will be the major factor in the production of this notebook.....i can truly say...that this is #1 on my wish list for this Christmas....and #1 on my computer list.
 IBM ThinkPad X20: Laptop of the Gods Apr 05 '01 (Updated Apr 09 '01) Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Pros I love this laptop! It's size, processor, and large hard drive won me over. Cons It is pricey, but other than that I have no complaints. The Bottom Line This machine is quite expensive, but if you have the money then it's an excellent investment. Full Review Well, Epinions lack of new categories strikes again. This is a review of the IBM ThinkPad X20, but I'm placing it in the T20 category since there is no X20 category. If you notice that one has been created please drop me an e-mail and I'll move this opinion to the correct location. Thanks! I received an IBM ThinkPad X20 laptop just before Christmas. It's a loaner from work so I didn't have to pay for it. Of course, I'm expected to do work from home now, but that's another story. In this opinion I'll describe the pros and cons of the laptop from my end-user perspective. There won't be a lot of technical specs here, and keep in mind that some of the accessories I mention need to be bought separately. BASIC CONFIGURATION My X20 has a Pentium III 600 Mhz processor, 20 GB of hard drive space, and a 12.1" screen. Windows 2000 Professional is installed as the operating system. In addition to the basic laptop, I've added a docking station to provide a parallel port (for printers, scanners and CD burners), a floppy drive, and a place to plug in a proper mouse and keyboard. My employer also installed an ethernet card, and a PCMCIA Cisco System wireless LAN card. I use the ethernet to connect to my Internet service when I'm at home, and the wireless to surf the web when I'm in boring meetings at work. SIZE Without exception, the very first thing that everyone notices about this laptop is it's incredibly small size. The surface of the laptop is about the size of a typical 8 1/2 x 11" sheet of paper, and only 1" thick. This machine is so small, in fact, that many people don't even realize when I have it in the docking station and assume that the docking station is part of the laptop. Once, I grabbed the whole thing, docking station and all, and walked off to meeting without even realizing until later. I don't know how much the X20 weighs, but it is very light and can easily be tucked under your arm. SPEED This machine flies, compared to my Pentium II workstation and the old Pentium 166 clunker I had at home. I can open multiple applications and flip between them without delay. My Internet connection is much faster and more stable than it was on my old computer. The only complaint I have about this machine (speed-wise) is the amount time it takes to start up. I'd estimate the average start up time at about 2 to 3 full minutes. After I logon it requires another full minute or so until I can start launching applications. This is a minor annoyance, however, and I understand that this is a common problem with many laptops versus desktops. CURSOR CONTROL The X20 has a small red "push-stick" in the center of the keyboard that is used much like a joystick to move the cursor around the screen. The stick takes some getting used to at first, but after a few days of steady use I was able to confidently navigate around. I still do occasionally click on the wrong things when I'm in a hurry, but the control is adequate for most uses. Most importantly it doesn't take up a lot of space, and I prefer it to the finger pad style controls on other laptops I've used. THE KEYBOARD The keyboard is small, compact, and well laid out. Luckily, I have small fingers so I don't find it that different from typing on a full size desktop keyboard. However, I don't think I'll ever be able to type as fast on my X20 as elsewhere, and because the keys are small and sensitive I do occasionally hit a wrong button while stretching for the numbers or function keys. Along the top of the keyboard are four "special" buttons. The first is a "Thinkpad" button that is supposed to pop up a menu of Thinkpad-specific options. I never use this button, and it doesn't seem to do anything when I press it. I suspect this might due to the configuration of my operating system (and the fact that I only skimmed my X20 user's manual!) The three other buttons along the top of the keyboard are used to decrease, increase or mute the sound volume. SOUND The sound that comes out of the built-in Thinkpad speakers is acceptable for bleeps and bloops, but you won't be using them to host any dance parties with your MP3 collection. Thankfully, the Thinkpad has a line-out jack for audio, and when I connect the audio through to my portable Sanyo stereo the sound is quite good. To my untrained ear the MP3s I play on my laptop through my stereo sound just as good as CDs I play on the stereo itself. Excellent. DISPLAY QUALITY The display quality on my X20 is crisp and clean. As long as I take a moment to place the screen at a correct angle to my line of sight the colours and details are excellent. In general, I find laptop displays to be easier on my eyes than conventional monitors--the images seem more stable and less flickery. However, the screen is only about 12 inches in size, so I find myself scrolling frequently when reading large documents or web pages. BATTERY LIFE Battery life is an important topic, especially when you are using your laptop for meetings, or on an airplane. When the battery is fully charged my X20 will last through about 3 full hours of moderate use before it dies. If desired, you can configure the machine to conserve energy by dimming the screen when running from batteries. You can also configure the machine to go into "standby" mode after a certain period of time with no activity has passed. In standby mode the machine appears to be off, but recovers quickly to it's original state when you tap the power button. My only complaint with this feature is that I usually lose my network connection (wireless or ethernet) when the machine goes into standby mode, and I may be required to reboot. I've occasionally received the dreaded "blue screen of death" when I try to reconnect to the Internet after coming out of standby mode. Not too friendly. One further note on battery life: as the machine ages, the battery life will reduce. Some of my co-workers have trouble surviving 30 minutes on a fully charge battery. I assume that this is a simple fact of laptop life, and they simply need to invest in a new battery. SECURITY ISSUES Laptops are a hot commodity on the black market, especially little ThinkPads like this one. To deter thieves the X20 has a security slot on the body of the laptop and the docking station that allows you to lock it to a desk or bolt with a security cable. The cable unlocks with a key or combination, depending on the type. In order to remove the cable without a key a thief would have to practically destroy the body of the laptop--not too inviting to a pawn shop. Fortunately, if the machine is stolen or lost, the contents of the hard drive can be protected with either a power-on password, a hard drive password, or both. This is a good idea if the machine contains confidential work-related information. CONCLUSION I love this laptop! It's tiny size, powerful processor, and large hard drive won me over right away. The only complaints I have about it are minor, and they are probably more a criticism of laptops in general than the X20. This machine is quite expensive, but if you have the money then it's an excellent investment. Note: Prices are very approximate, since I didn't pay for mine and I'm not sure about the Canadian to US dollar price conversion.
 Worth the wait Nov 24 '02 (Updated Dec 03 '02) Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Keyboard, screen, build-quality, warranty, that "ThinkPad Look" Cons Absolutely none The Bottom Line Get a used T20 and say goodbye to "Laptop Envy" forever! Full Review I used to do computer consulting and support as a sideline business, and two years ago had a job which involved installing Windows 2000 and a brand-new IBM T20 and configuring it for the company's network. I had just bought a brand-new Toshiba Satellite 2675 days before, and immediately felt laptop envy the moment I touched the casing of that T20. Installing the software was a piece of cake, and I filed the wonderful experience in the back of mind, wishing that someday, I too could afford a T20. I've been through two other laptops in those two years, both of them Toshiba Porteges. Don't get me wrong, I really love ultralight laptops, and in that category, I consider Toshiba Porteges to be, along with IBM's X-series, the very best. I would have kept using my Portege 3480 for a few more years, but I was asked to configure a classmate's T23, which is essentially identical to the T20, only faster, and my laptop envy returned, in full-force. This time, however, I COULD afford a T23 of my very own. T23? Isn't this a review of the T20? Well, I was about to order a new T23 from CDW, when I did a quick search on eBay and found a "Like New" T20 at less than half the price of the T23. After getting the serial number from the seller and finding that it was still under IBM factory warranty, the deal was set and I bought a T20 with 14" screen, 700MHz screen, Windows 98, 128MB ram and a 20GB drive. First off, my purchase was an example about but what to, and not to do when buying used. I did my homework and verified that the machine was under warranty, however I didn't ask enough questions about condition, and simply took the seller's "Like New' description to mean what it said. The machine arrived with a sticky keyboad, very flexible chasis and washed-out, yellow-tinted screen. The seller was very uncooperative, having just offloaded his problem laptop, so I called IBM tech support (and filed fraud charges on eBay). IBM came through, and this 26-month-old computer was sent to them with a laundry list of problems, returning three days later as an essentially new computer. They replaced the LCD, the keyboard, the hard drive (was noisy) and tightened up all of the screws on the inside and out. They also replaced some interior chasis parts that had warped or bent over two years of hard use, and even changed the top cover, so that all that is left of the original machine is the bottom plate (very clean) and the motherboard, which tested perfect. My T20 is now, in every sense of the term, "Like New", and is simply a delight to use. First off, when my T20 returned from IBM, there were a few changes I had to make immediately. I dislike WIndows 98. Actually, dislike is far too mild a word, I HATE IT. DOS-based Windows is simply too buggy and unstable for me to risk my data on, so any computer that comes with Windows 95, 98 or ME, immediately gets the "New OS" treatment. A new OS for me is either Windows 2000 Professional or either version of Windows XP. IBM's website is terrific here, as they have a chart for each of their series of laptops, cross-indexed by all supported operating systems. Find T20 on the top, then go down to each category, such as video or sound, and pick the driver for the OS you want to use. I decided to install Windows XP Professional on my T20, and everything was very easy to find and install. MY ADVICE HERE: Do not do an "Upgrade" install, but rather bite the bullet, wipe the hard drive and install the new OS "Clean", from scratch. Upgrades never work well, and always introduce stability problems down the road. Since I was installing a new OS anyway, and wanted lots of space to play with images from my new digital camera (Canon S200 Digital Elph, review coming soon), I ordered a larger hard drive on eBay while the laptop was being fixed by IBM. When the laptop came back, I installed a 40GB IBM Travelstar hard drive, which is the same drive that comes with the new T23, and added $100 to the price. I also wanted more than 128MB of ram, so I ordered a pair of 256MB modules, maxing it out to 512MB (60. Lastly, while my computer came only with DVD, I still wanted bootable floppy and CDRW, so I ordered both drives to fit in the ultrabay 2000 port ($40 floppy, $60 CDRW). My grand total was $260 for accessories/upgrades and $650 for the laptop = $910. I sold the 20GB drive for $50 and the 128MB module for $10, making my net cost for a 700MHz T20 with 512MB RAM, 40GB drive, DVD, CDRW and floppy drives $850. That new T23 was selling for $1685, with only DVD, 20GB and 128MB RAM. With Windows XP the T20 is a delight. It boots up quickly and does everything smooth and fast. Of course, XP is very stable on the T20, as this is a "Corporate-class" laptop, meaning only stable, tried-and-true components were used, with correspondingly mature nad stable drivers. There is no flakey video or any other erratic behavior on a T-seies ThinkPad, because the vast majority of such troubles on other laptops comes from poorly written divice drivers. Everything here simply works. The best example I can think of is hot-swapping drives. Pull the small eject lever and IBM's EasyEject utility AUTOMATICALLY tells the OS that you will remove the drive, and by the time you grab the handle that pops out automatically for that purpose, the system tray tells you that the device is ready to be removed. INsert the new device and by the time you can click "My Computer" to open it up, the system tray tells you it is ready. Every laptop should work like this, but they don't. As for the physical stuff, well IBM keyboards are legendary, and this one fully deserves the reputation. It is crisp and firm, while quiet. They keys are more responsive than anything else you will ever touch, except, of course, another IBM. My wife owns a ThinkPad 570, and this is just as good, better than any of the Toshibas I've owned, with the possible exception of the Portege 4000, which is very "IBM-Like". The screen is simply gorgeous. I've always used smaller laptops with 11 or 12 inch panels, so moving up to a 14" TFT is a dramatic difference for me. My Portege 4000 with its 12" screen was a beautiful machine for multimedia, but with the 14" T20 next to it, there is no comparison. Most impressive of all, despite the much larger LCD and a bigger keyboard, the T20 is thinner than the Portege, shallower, though a little bit wider. It also only weighs a half-pound more, making it every bit as portable. The TrackPoint mouse is typical IBM, and considerably better than Toshiba's similar accupoint. Cursor control is fast and accurate, and at least for this user, represents about the best pointing device available on a laptop. There is no need to move your fingers away from typing position, and unlike touchpads, no chance whatsoever of accidentally clicking with the fleshy part of your thumb. Finally, compared to more modern laptops, like the T23 or even the new T30, very little is given up in buying a used T20. 700MHz is so fast that you probably won't even notice the difference unless you edit video or play high-end video games. Of course the newer laptops have better video chips and higher resolution screens, so if you do work in graphics, an older machine will likely not meet your needs. For me, it is perfect. I do typical office type work, word processing, email, web browsing and video conferencing, all of which are accomplished extremely well using the T20. Even DVD movie playback is every bit as good as the newer laptops, with no distortion or jitters, just a smooth, high-quality picture and awesome sound, even from the built-in speakers, which are mounted in the center of the front panel - an unusual location. In conclusion, I believe we have reached one of those technological plateaus where the hardware has advanced much faster than the needs of the software. The result is that even two or three year old laptops are still entirely satisfactory in terms of performance. My desktop is an AMD K6-2 at 450MHz, and it runs Windows XP Home very well indeed, with no need for any more power. I am totally satisfied with my T20, and suffer laptop envy no more. ***Update 12/03/02*** Well, I've been happily computing on my T20 for over a month now and can honestly say that this is by far, the nicest PC I've ever used. Dead reliable and very fast, it simply continues to delight. The digital camera conects seamlessly, appearing as another drive in My Computer. The CDRW burns successfully every time, and even my "difficult" DVD, a Korean film called "2009 Lost Memories" plays beautifully. I did have a problem wiht the modem/ethernet combo card, and IBM just overnighted a new one to me - now that's service. With my 3Com X-Jack 802.11 wireless PC card installed, it even has seamless wifi integration. Not bad for a 1999 model laptop bought on the cheap. Recommended Yes
 So good I bought one!! by sysconp1 | Jun 07 '01 Pros: Lightweight, stylish, simple to use features Cons: Price The Bottom Line: I am having all our laptops changed over to the T-series, so easy to use and support. Plus IBM support is second to none. Recommended: Yes Well what can I say? I have had this machine since September last year and I am delighted. This machine is everything IBM says and much more. I have mine loaded up to 512MB RAM and a 30GB HDD with a now multi-region DVD to boot. This machine has been a work horse, travelling with me across the world and functioning perfectly. Lightweight even with the extras you are never to knackered from lugging it around. IBM did well putting the composite Titanium case on this toy, it really is hard wearing! The audio keys and access key just above the keyboard are perfect for day to day operation. IBM have moved the power button to just above the keyboard also and this prevents the laptop from being switched on in transit. Battery life has been excellent with 3hrs being the minimum during normal operation. The addition of a mini PCI slot on the top of the lid adds a lot of new features such as the camera, bluetooth unit and smart card socket. The camera is excellent with great definition and pose value. Amount Paid (US$): 3200 Operating System: Windows Processor: Intel Pentium III Processor speed: 601-700 RAM: More than 256 Internal Storage: DVD
 I bought a 150 T20s Light, Great Screen, Fast Haven't found one yet I am the President of a recent eBusiness Start-up for a major insurance company in Chicago, IL. We needed a powerful, portable solution for 150 new employees for this start-up. We chose the IBM Thinkpad T20 with 128 MB of RAM, an 18 Gig Hard Drive and...
 LAPTOP THAT WON'T LET YOU DOWN Feb 20 '01 Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros fast,easy to use Cons none The Bottom Line very reliableeasy to use and fast Full Review My company ordered 600 new T20s, and we've received about 50 of them so far. Apparently IBM can't make them fast enough because they're delayed in shipping. But anyways, back to the product. The new T20 is one of the finest laptops I've seen to date. This thing is more powerfull than some of the servers we have here at work. With over a gig of ram in our versions, there isn't anything that you can't run. The Pentium III chip is one of the fastest chips on the market so you aren't going to be outdated very fast. Like all thinkpads, it's built to last. There isn't anything you can do to break these things. They're as sturdy, if not more sturdy than all the other thinkpads that I've used. I personally use my T20 more than I do my desktop I love it so much. If you're on the market to buy a new laptop, this is the one to get. Recommended Yes Amount Paid (US$): 3500 Operating System: Windows Processor: Intel Pentium II Processor speed: Don't Know Screen Size: Greater than 15 RAM: 96 Internal Storage: CD-RW Hard Drive (GB): 41-50
 The Perfect Laptop? by: marc (Mon May 29 '00) Pros: Screen size, form factor, product support Cons: Expensive, no trackpad available If you are sick of carrying around a 7 pound "desktop replacement" laptop but you still want the cutting edge performance, the IBM ThinkPad T20 is a fabulous option. Weighing in at 4.6 pounds with a 14.1" screen, a large hard drive and lots of whistles and bells (like a little light which shines down on the keyboard for when you need to type in low-light situations), this laptop can go anywhere and do anything. It comes with many different configurations which are easily located on the IBM.com website and the product support offered by IBM is top notch. For one, you can easily retrieve a dynamic list of all downloadable update files for your specific machine. Besides the high price, there are a few small downsides... Some people find the IBM pointer device (used instead of a trackpad) to be awkward and fidgety at first. After repeated use, I have come around on this. I use a mouse anytime I am using an application that I will be using for more than 20 minutes or so but when doing busywork around the hard drive (moving or renaming files, reading emails) the little touchpoint thing is fine. In fact, it's often faster than a trackpad because your hands are right there as you type. Purchase Price: $3,644 Operating System: Windows Ease of Use: Piece of cake to use Processor: Intel Pentium III Processor speed: 601-700 Screen Size: 14" RAM (MB): 128 Internal Storage: DVD Hard Drive (GB): 9-12 Quality of Tech Support: Went out of their way to be helpful Recommend to other potential buyers? Yes Recommended as a gift for: Busy Executives
 If not THE BEST Laptop on the market! Feb 18 '01 Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros This has got to be one of the best machines on the market. Cons You have to get use to the mouse on this laptop. The Bottom Line It is the kind of equipment that you will feel good about purchasing. The performance is incredible. Battery life is OK. It's thin. Weighs next to nothing. GREAT BUY! Full Review OK.OK. Enough marketing from me or anyone. But i do have to tell you that after friends of mine saw the laptop, they were amazed. The only thing that hindered their purchase was and is the price. But you get for what you paid for with this machine. And I paid for IBM. Which to some might not mean too much but this is BIG BLUE we are talking about. The only drawback is that (like a big dumbass) i did not use Config Safe before installing an application which in turned caused havoc on my dvd player. I advise that everyone use Config Safe! One thing that could be improved is the NIC card that i purchased. It's the PCMCIA that doesn't use the dongle. The problem is that it takes up both PCMCIA spaces. ARGH! Recommended Yes Amount Paid (US$): 3349 Operating System: Windows Processor: Intel Pentium III Processor speed: 701-800 RAM: 256 Internal Storage: DVD Hard Drive (GB): 13-20
 IBMMMMM by JokerJFu | Feb 16 '01 Pros: Durable, light Cons: pricey The Bottom Line: a machine worthy of my purchase Recommended: Yes I really like this laptop. It's sleak, it's very durable, and it's really lightweight, I can throw it into any backpack or suitcase and I barely even notice the weight difference. With 700 mhz behind this baby, nothing is a pain to load. If you love to surf the web, this will have web pages loading like nothing. Although it is kinda nice to have a DVD player with such a small screen it's basically pointless. And if you have the screen at the wrong angle it'll be difficult to see but that's what you have to deal with, with LCD screens. I like the quietness of the keystrokes when you're typing. If people are sleeping around you which has happened many times before to me, you can type as much as you want without the annoying sound of "CHIK! CHIK! CHIKKA CHIK!" irratating the person next to you. Overall a good computer worth having, although it will put a dent in your budget. It also comes with a 56k modem which is standard issue for today, for connecting to the internet virtually anywhere there is a phoneline. It also has great support for the RJ-11 and RJ-45 ports for connecting through modem or for people with DSL, CABLE, or any such thing as otherwise called Local Area Network (LAN) Very useful Amount Paid (US$): 2,700 Operating System: Windows Processor: Intel Pentium III Processor speed: 601-700 Screen Size: 14 RAM: 128 Internal Storage: DVD Hard Drive (GB): 13-20
 Get the T21! Light weight, powerful, looks nice. Pricey. I have an IBM Thinkpad T21 PIII 850Mhz, 14.1" TFT (1400x1050), 196MB RAM, 30GB HD, DVD and Windows 2000. It is light and thin, around 5 pounds. I bought it through discovercard.com shopcenter which allowed me to save an additional 5%.
 Buy one, if you can afford one! Fast, Reliable, impressive feature listing. Not cheap, a battery hog. I was issued a T20 three months ago by the company that I work for. I like this computer, but I'm glad that I didn't have to pay for $3,400 purchase price for it. This computer came loaded, however, (256MB RAM, DVD, docking station, extra power pack, etc), so the company got a lot of equipment for it's money. The computer worked perfectly out of the box, but the operating system that running needed some service packs before it was up to date. It took a week to get used to the Trackpoint, but it's actually works very well while on the road. Hot-swapping PC cards and removable drives is also very easy, and the computer has only crashed ONCE since I got it This computer is fast enough to use as a desktop replacement, and travels well. Battery life leaves something to be desired, however, as it can drain a fully charged battery in just 2 hours of moderate use. Bring an extra battery for long trips, and you'll be OK. Everything said, I'm impressed with this laptop, and I might actually buy one of my own if I ever took a job that chained me to a desktop machine.
 "I bought this computer a few months back and wanted to use it a little before I submitted a review. Here it goes, the good, the bad, and the ugly on this notebook: The good This is a light machine with a 14.1"" TFT screen. Weighing in at 5.3lbs, its one of the lightest notebooks with this large of a monitor. You will not be disappointed by IBM's ""black"" TFT screen--its been the best for many years now and this notebook is no different. It beats lugging around a ""desktop replacement"". The keyboard is very responsive and has a great feel to it. Its a lot softer than the touch of a Gateway or Dell laptop, and less noisy than either. However, the keys dont feel cheap and the keyboard types surprisingly well for a reduced size keyboard. Battery life is good. I get about 3.5 hours of usage per charge and IBM has a great utility that does a fair job of predicting the battery life. I have never actually run out of batteries when I forgot my AC adapter--and I do a lot of notebook work in class or doing graphic design. The performance of this computer is very good. It may not run Premiere or After Effects as smoothly as a premium desktop, but for most uses, it works well. It will *never* have a problem with daily usage like email and word processing. Even the video performance is surprisingly good--I believed that a Savage IX video card with only 8mb SGRAM would not compare to the GeForce Go (Toshiba/Dell use this) or the ATI Radeon Mobility (Sony GR series), but even large MPEG/AVI files play smoothly. Lastly, IBM has a good technical support resource site. Once you enter in your Thinkpad model number and serial, you can log into their support site and pull up accessory lists for your computer and complete technical specifications. It's something all laptop manufacturers should do. Not to nitpick, but the Trackpoint cap gets dirty *very* easily. IBM changed their caps to be more rough so that your finger wouldn't slip some years back, but it also attracts a lot more dirt and dust. Expect to buy some trackpoint cap replacements every 6-12 months. The bad: Note, I did have 1 bad pixel on my screen, will address the issue in the bad. Perhaps it wouldn't be considered much of a fault with other laptops, but when you pay this much for a Thinkpad, I believe you deserve perfection. The cost of this machine. I paid 1800 for my Thinkpad and got a great deal--the street price was still about 2800 when I purchased. THe Thinkpad T is great and its my favorite to date, but you will pay an arm and a leg. If you have money to burn, this is a good place. But overall, this is a negative. Not only that, but IBM accessories are extremely expensive and even eBay doesnt alleviate the problem well. Moral of the story: you will pay an arm and a leg to do upgrade work. This machine is a 2 spindle design, which means you can only use the floppy or CD/DVD/CD-RW one at a time. I've gotten use to it, but when you install software, it can be a pain. Make sure you use Win 2000 or XP because you can hotswap with these OSes without too much difficulty. However, it is rather inconvenient. Lastly, the keyboard. Now it feels great and touch types wonderfully, but its still a 95% keyboard. My fingers cramp up after about 4 hours of usage per day, which is very bad. My repetitive stress injuries have substantially increased and I recommend buying an external keyboard as well. The ""ugly"" IBM's tech support policy. I had a problem on my PC (and I am a computer support technician/administrator!) and could not fix some sound problems. They refused to help me with my machine because I didn't use the Recovery software CD to configure my system. I realize this won't apply to most users, but for any ""power user"", be aware: IBM will only support machines with their default OS setup. If you want to install additional/custom OS's, you're on your own. As well, IBM technical support doesnt strike me as being as impressive as Dell's. Much better than Gateway's, but still leaves room to be desired. IBM's screeen pixel policy. On a 1024x768 XGA TFT screen (14.1""), they allow for a whopping 12 pixels going bad before they will call it a defect. One bad pixel is bearable, two gets annoying... and up to 12 is rather ridiculous. Conclusion: A great laptop, period. It's not perfect, and I wished that IBM had put a fullsize keyboard on this machine like the Thinkpad R30. (and halved the price) Other than that, this is the best laptop I have ever owned and the best balance between power, large screen, and portability thus far. (The Sony GR series comes very close though) I highly recommend this machine if you can afford it."
 "Shop Around! durability, speed, reliable price At first glance, the IBM ThinkPad T20 looks a lot like the ThinkPad 600. But upon further inspection, you'll notice that IBM has carefully shifted things around, making the notebook much easier to use. The other major feature is that the case is made of a titanium alloy, which lets your Thinkpad endure the wear and tear that is involved with mobility with a lot more ease. The ThinkPad T20 is available in two flavors: The base system ($3,100 street) has a PIII/650, a 6GB hard drive, the same 13.3-inch active-matrix display as the older ThinkPad 600, and a CD-ROM drive. The high-end system ($4,000 street) has a PIII/700, a 12GB hard drive, a 14.1-inch active-matrix display, and a DVD-ROM drive"
 IBM Think Pad Feb 15 '01 Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Performance, Value Cons None The Bottom Line Lightweight only 6 pounds and great product Full Review This laptop includes 4 easy launch buttons which will take you easily to your favorite Web destinations. It also has Track Point pointing device and internet scrolling bar which includes the Press To Select Feature. It has great multimedia and connectivity. It is a thin design. It includes a fast mobile Intel Celeron Processor up to 500MHZ and 12.1 HPA Display. Also has some Pre Loaded Software such as Lotus Smart Suite Millennium. A lot of times you can find great rebates on this item to save you up to 100.00. This laptop is lightweight at approx, 6 lbs. And has a built in 56K Modem. 24X CD-Rom Drive. Recommended Yes Amount Paid (US$): 689.99 Operating System: Windows Processor: Intel Celeron Processor speed: 401-500 RAM: 32 Hard Drive (GB): 13-20
 Dont purchase. It'll take a bite out of your wallet. by darksun | Nov 18 '01 Pros: none Cons: battery dies out in a matter of hours. The Bottom Line: Bottom line: This is a rip off, no more need be said. Recommended: No This laptop is much too expensive for its quality first of all. I dont believe that it is worth it. The laptop drains batteries incredibly fast compared to my 200 mhz computer. Second of all, its a complete piece of junk! Several of the keys fell off during useage and needed to be glued back on. The floppy drive trapped my disc inside, and got worse when the metal part that protects the information part of the disk, got stuck inside jamming the drive. I had to take it back to a computer service place just to have the drive repaired and the disc extracted. That costed me a bundle! I had to replace the lithium battery and buy a new one because apparently the one I had was problematic when I called the tech support, and they refused to exchange or replace it. I hope you understand my flustered tone of voice when I explain all this to you, because I am mad! This isn't a business they're running, this is a rip off. Above all that, the hard drive died on me after a matter of months. It had a bad cluster which wouldnt leave even after I formatted it several times. All I have to show for my purchase is a big hole in my wallet and an ulcer. Amount Paid (US$): 2800 Operating System: Windows Processor: Intel Pentium III Processor speed: over 1000 Screen Size: 14 RAM: 128 Internal Storage: CD-RW and DVD Hard Drive (GB): 13-20
 Fast, stable and light Jan 29 '01 (Updated Jan 29 '01) Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Lightweight, feature packed, stable Cons high price, DVD playback not smooth The Bottom Line Having all the features of a full-size notebook but yet weighing in at under five pounds, the T20 is anyone's dream come true. ($$$ though!) Full Review I got the opportunity to use the IBM T20 when my company decided to standardize on the newer T20 and make the older Thinkpad 570 obsolete. My first impressions of this machine was that it felt light, yet also sturdy. Unlike the 570, the T20 includes almost everything you need: DVD, a full range of ports, decent sized screen and my personal favorite: Built in modem and ethernet ports. The built in ports allow you to leave the PC card slots empty. It also solves the problem of broken connectors or expensive PC cards with built-in ports. Opening the laptop, sound volume buttons replace the typical volume knob. Personally, I like this because the buttons are right in front of you and not hidden to a side. Also, the power button is on the inside of the powerbook. Personally, I prefer to have power buttons on the side because I like to be able to turn on the laptop with it being connected to a monitor and keyboard without opening it up but this is only a minor inconvenience that most people will not care about. The system FEELS zippy, and it doesn't crash too much (Windows 98 always crashes, so I'm not expecting IBM to fix Microsoft's problems). One problem that I did encounter was with DVD playback. Playback wasn't entirely smooth, and every once in a while it seemed to skip a few frames or so. I tried stopping background tasks and changing the power configuration but the skips still occurred. Not that big of a problem, but one that is annoying at times. A nice little feature that I like is the keyboard light that is located on the top of the flip-display. It can be activated with a keyboard short-cut and provides just enough light so that you can see the keyboard when you are typing in the dark. I love using it when I need to finish something up but don't want to disturb my roomate by turning on a light. A small touch, but nice nevertheless. Recommended Yes
 A computer worth considering by professor101, Jan 19 '01 Pros: Large/bright screen, fast, keyboard light, DVD, hot swappable drives Cons: Short battery life, pricey, no trackpad If you have the money, this is a great little laptop. The large, bright screen is the first thing you notice. The keyboard is easy to use and has a nice "bounce" to it. When working on the plane or in dim situations a nice light shines down...
 Think with the Thinkpad T20 by tycoon1999, Mar 14 '01 Pros: Fast, smart, reliable and mobile. Cons: The Price. This Lab-Top is one of the greatest in its class. The IBM Thinkpad T20 comes with the newest technology possible. Its fast and reliable with a 700MHZ Pentium 3 Processor and with 12 Gigabytes to play with you could fit plenty of "junk". You have...
