The government of Saddam Hussein has lost control over Baghdad after US forces advanced into the centre of the capital. US tanks drove unhindered into public squares on the eastern bank of the Tigris for the first time, including the area surrounding the Palestine hotel, where the international media are based. In a symbolic moment, an American armoured vehicle helped a crowd of cheering Iraqis to pull down a huge statue of Saddam Hussein in the Fardus square in front of the hotel. Dozens of exultant people leapt on the deposed figure and stamped on it, shouting "Death to Saddam!". US Secretary of Defence Donald Rumsfeld described the scenes as "breathtaking". He said Saddam Hussein was "taking his place in the pantheon of failed brutal dictators". US President George W Bush has said this is a historic moment. However, his spokesman, Ari Fleischer said: "As much as the president is pleased to see the progress of the military campaign ... he remains very cautious because he knows there is great danger that can still lie ahead". US Central Command has "added Baghdad to the list of places the regime does not have control", spokesman Vincent Brooks told reporters at the daily Central Command briefing. CENTRAL BAGHDAD Baghdad webcam: This service is subject to interruption The Americans have been advancing from three directions. There are still reports of resistance, particularly to the west of the city. The BBC's Gavin Hewitt, who is travelling with the US 3rd Infantry Division in the west, says the scenes of welcome for the American soldiers witnessed in the centre have yet to be seen. Looting spreads There has been no sign of the officials who have until now dealt with the media on a daily basis. Mr Rumsfeld said that Syria - which he accuses of giving military assistance to Iraq - had helped members of the regime escape. "Senior regime people are moving out of Iraq into Syria and Syria is continuing to send things into Iraq. We find it notably unhelpful," he said. Mr Rumsfeld said he did not know the whereabouts of Saddam Hussein or whether he had survived the coalition advances. The day began with cheering Iraqis greeting marines arriving in the Shia stronghold of Saddam City. CENTRAL BAGHDAD Map: Fighting in Baghdad Who are the Shia? United Nations offices have been ransacked and the Olympic Committee building - headquarters of Saddam Hussein's elder son Uday - set on fire. Television pictures showed people kicking images of Saddam Hussein and carrying off everything from elaborate vases to office furniture. Our correspondent says people would not be behaving in this way unless they were sure Saddam Hussein's grip on the city had been broken. But he added that, although the Shias who had been repressed by Saddam Hussein's regime were welcoming the marines as agents of change, the US is not popular in Iraq. Other key developments: A spokeswoman for the International Committee of the Red Cross says the disorder means it is too dangerous to work in Baghdad. One Canadian Red Cross worker has died after his car was hit by gunfire on Tuesday. The US military also says its warplanes can fly anywhere over Iraq with impunity. British soldiers take the first steps to restore order to the southern Iraqi city of Basra as looting begins to subside. Journalists with the Arabic television stations Al-Jazeera and Abu Dhabi TV are trapped overnight in the offices of Abu Dhabi TV by fighting between US and Iraqi forces Two US airmen are missing after their F-15 fighter jet went down over Iraq on Sunday, the US Defence Department says Two injured US special forces soldiers are rescued near Baghdad and taken to hospital in Kuwait, Central Command announces Fighting elsewhere Iraqi men kiss US serviceman US forces were welcomed with joy by Iraqis Outside Baghdad, coalition forces have made a number of advances. US forces in central Iraq have captured the division headquarters of the Iraqi 10th armoured division without a fight after the division's 15,000 troops vanish, the BBC's Andrew North reports. He says the towns of Diwaniya and Amara have been secured, but resistance continues from Kut and Suq al Shuyoukh. And, elsewhere in central Iraq, he says the situation in Hilla is unclear and there has been no word from Ramadi and Falluja In the north, Kurdish sources say Kurdish fighters backed by US special forces have taken control of a strategically important mountain near the city of Mosul. In eastern Iraq, US marines are close to linking up with UK troops coming from Basra in the south, opening an eastern supply corridor to Baghdad after taking positions without resistance on Tuesday, a BBC correspondent says.
The US military commander says there has been "rapid" and "dramatic" progress by coalition forces seeking to take control of Iraq. But General Tommy Franks acknowledged continuing stiff resistance in various battlefields and the loss of more US soldiers and equipment. These included the two-men crew of an Apache helicopter brought down in Karbala - a holy site about 100 kilometres (60 miles) south of Baghdad. Iraqi television has shown pictures of two men it described as the pilots. The images - which the US says violate regulations on war - were shown as more explosions shook the outskirts of Baghdad in the latest air raids on the city. The BBC's Paul Wood says the latest blasts were different from previous explosions - an indication that B-52 aircraft may be dropping huge payloads on Iraqi troops. 'In charge' General Franks was speaking after Iraqi television broadcast a rallying call from President Saddam Hussein to what he called his nation's "brave and heroic" people. Iraq's Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz said later that the regime's leadership was "in good shape" and Saddam Hussein was "in full control of the army and the country". IRAQ CAMPAIGN Map of Iraq Map: Military operations Iraq's Republican Guard Correspondents say General Franks, the commander of the US-led invasion, gave a deliberately upbeat assessment. "Progress toward our objectives has been rapid and in some cases dramatic," he told a news conference. And in London, UK Prime Minister Tony Blair told parliament: "There are bound to be difficult days ahead, but the strategy and its timing are proceeding according to plan." He said US forces had reached Karbala. "It is a little way from there that they will encounter the Medina division of the Republican Guard who are defending the route to Baghdad. This will be a crucial moment." Live pictures from Baghdad (video feed may be interrupted) The BBC's Michael Voss says there are believed to be three brigades of the elite Republican Guards between Karbala and Baghdad. They were subjected to sustained air attacks throughout Monday. One attack involved between 30 and 40 US helicopter gunships, US officials said. New alerts General Franks said there was now military action throughout Iraq. Reported operations include: US forces intensifying their assault on the key crossroads town of Nasiriya where there has been fierce fighting for control of two bridges on the invasion route from Kuwait to Baghdad British units opening fire with artillery on the southern city of Basra after what UK officials said were attacks by Iraqi forces. Iraqi officials say 77 civilians were killed. Guerrilla attacks by Iraqi forces dressed in civilian clothes around the strategic port of Umm Qasr Bombardments of Iraqi positions on the front between Kirkuk and the Kurdish-controlled town of Chamchamal Sniper attacks on British units in the south and around the Rumeila oilfields which are no longer considered safe US, UK and Australian special forces soldiers active in the west of Iraq General Franks said the continued, though "sporadic", resistance was to have been expected. He said coalition forces had now taken 3,000 Iraqi soldiers prisoner and that many others had deserted. In addition, half the channel leading to Umm Qasr had been cleared of mines, which would open the way for the humanitarian relief operation promised by US President George W Bush. UK soldier killed General Franks said he could not provide any update on coalition troops killed or taken prisoner by Iraq. But a UK military spokesman said British forces had suffered their first combat loss when a soldier was killed in al-Zubayr, south-west of Basra, on Monday. In his second televised address since the outbreak of war, Saddam Hussein said Iraqi forces were inflicting heavy losses on the invading units. Saddam Hussein speaking on Iraqi television The enemies are in real trouble now Saddam Hussein Saddam speech excerpts The Iraqi leader, looking relaxed and confident, promised that victory over US and British forces was near. "Victory will be ours soon," he said. "Iraqis will strike the necks as God has commanded you." At one stage, he read out a roll call of honour naming individual commanders and their locations, such as the southern port of Umm Qasr. But coalition officials - including UK Defence Minister Geoff Hoon - said the apparent references to recent events did not necessarily mean Saddam Hussein was alive. Angry reactions The US has meanwhile reacted angrily to Iraqi television footage showing the bodies of several American soldiers and their wrecked vehicles, and interviews with five captured survivors - one of them a woman. HAVE YOUR SAY A new government for Iraq is just around the corner Fredley Sisimia, Honiara, Solomon Islands Read more of your comments Iraq's Information Minister Mohammed Saeed Sahaf on Monday said the prisoners would be treated according to the Geneva Conventions. Iraq says 62 civilians have been killed and more than 400 wounded in various cities in the past 24 hours. United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan said he had been warned by the International Red Cross that "the people in Basra may be facing a humanitarian disaster". Water and electricity supplies have been disrupted there since Saturday.
Fierce sandstorms have been holding up US-led forces in their advance towards the Iraqi capital, Baghdad. BBC correspondents travelling with coalition troops say units have been halted, with visibility reduced to just a few metres. However, the weather has not prevented US B-52 aircraft from dropping huge payloads of bombs south of the capital. The air strikes are targeting the Medina division of the elite Republican Guards, digging in for what both sides agree will probably be a decisive encounter, says the BBC's Paul Wood. The chairman of the US joint chiefs of staff, General Richard Myers, acknowledged that bad weather was slowing down the advance, but vowed that it would not be stopped. Major-General Victor Renuart of US Central Command said 1,400 air sorties against the Iraqi Republican Guard were scheduled for Tuesday. Iraq's Information Minister Mohammed Saeed al-Sahaf said 16 people had been killed and 95 wounded in Baghdad in the previous 24 hours. Command Sergeant Major Kenneth Preston - who oversees the Third Infantry Division - told the Associated Press news agency that about 500 Iraqis had been killed in the past two days by American infantry, tanks and mechanised units sweeping through the south of the country. Strikes cancelled The BBC's Gavin Hewitt - who is about 160 kilometres (100 miles) south of Baghdad - says all operations have ceased as a result of the storm. Rivulets of sand are flowing across the desert floor and everybody is hunkering down, he says. IRAQ CAMPAIGN Map: Military operations Iraq's Republican Guard However, at coalition headquarters in Doha, Qatar, a US spokesman said military activity was continuing with all-weather precision weapons. And in Washington, General Myers vowed to press on, regardless of the weather. But the coalition has been forced to call back some combat missions from aircraft carriers in the region, according to the Associated Press. A dozen aircraft were launched from the USS Harry Truman in the Mediterranean on Tuesday on two strikes but returned to the carrier a few hours later without reaching northern Iraq. Strike pilots from the USS Kitty Hawk in the Gulf switched to satellite-guided weapons for strikes. Captain Patrick Driscoll, commander of the air wing aboard the USS Kitty Hawk, said the weather would "affect our package a little bit, but not our ability to support the battlefield". Tough battles Lieutenant Colonel Laura Richardson, a Black Hawk pilot who commands the 101st Airborne Division's 5th Battalion said the sandstorms were very frustrating. "These things can come in so fast," he said. General Myers said the coalition anticipated that "as we get closer to Baghdad, the resistance will get tougher". "That's where their best units are, the so-called Republican Guard units. They're the best trained, best equipped and reportedly the most loyal to the regime, so we think the toughest fighting is ahead of us... and we're preparing for that," General Myers told ABC television. The approaches to Baghdad are flat, but there are also villages, small towns, orchards and crops, which could provide plenty of cover for Iraqi troops. The Iraqi authorities say the US-led forces will be in for a surprise when they reach cities, our correspondent there says.
President George W Bush has refused to set a timetable to hand over ex-President Saddam Hussein to the interim Iraqi government. Mr Bush told reporters "appropriate security" must be in place first. The US and the Iraqi government do not want "lax security and for Saddam Hussein not to stand trial", Mr Bush said outside the White House. Iraq's prime minister has said he wants Saddam Hussein to be handed over before the 30 June transfer of power. Iyad Allawi told al-Jazeera television on Monday this would happen "within the next two weeks". His case is the same as all other prisoners of war Nadia Doumani ICRC Likely charges for Saddam The Red Cross has said he must be freed or charged before the end of June. The head of Iraq's special tribunal on war crimes, Salem Chalabi, said the country would "very shortly" have the proper facilities to detain Saddam Hussein. Mr Chalabi said the Iraqi authorities were also preparing to issue arrest warrants for the country's former rulers. The US-led coalition would hand them over "provided we show arrest warrants based on reasonable grounds", he told the French news agency, AFP. POW rules The Red Cross insisted on Sunday that the former Iraqi leader, designated a POW, cannot continue to be held by US forces after the conflict ends. "His case is the same as all other prisoners of war," said Nadia Doumani, who speaks for the International Committee of the Red Cross in Baghdad. Abu Ghraib jail The US expects to hold thousands of Iraqis after 30 June Geneva Conventions state that if POWs are only being held because they are enemy combatants - not charged with any crime - they have to be released when the conflict ends. "Saddam Hussein can be convicted for war crimes, for crimes against humanity... then he can be tried and prosecuted," said Ms Doumani. "If he is not charged, then the law says that at the end of war, of occupation, he should be released," she added. HAVE YOUR SAY Can we really trust a country which ignores the Geneva convention when it feels like it? Stephen R, UK Send us your comments Saddam Hussein has been held at an undisclosed location since his capture by US forces in December and is being interrogated by the CIA and FBI. He is expected to face charges of genocide and crimes against humanity. The ICRC has paid two humanitarian visits to check the conditions under which he is being held. The US army has said it will transfer up to 1,400 prisoners to Iraqi custody before 30 June - or release them entirely. However, it plans to continue holding between 4,000 and 5,000 prisoners whom it has deemed a threat to the coalition. About 400 prisoners were freed from Abu Ghraib on Monday and dozens of others have been informed of their impending release.
The search for Iraq's suspected weapons of mass destruction is being stepped up as international pressure mounts for the coalition to produce evidence that would support its decision to wage war on Iraq. A task force of more than 1,300 experts has been formed in an expansion of efforts to find proof that Iraq had a program of chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear weapons. The Iraq Survey Group comprises experts from the United States, Britain and Australia. Between 250 and 300 of those team members -- including some inspectors who were in Iraq before U.N. teams were expelled in 1998 -- will visit suspected weapons sites, said U.S. Maj. Gen. Keith Dayton, who will lead the team. Dayton estimated that slightly fewer than 200 U.S. personnel have so far checked about a third of Iraq's suspected weapons sites. Dayton said his team would be better prepared to respond quickly to intelligence reports and would no longer simply check off a list of suspect sites. "The Iraq Survey Group represents a significant expansion in the hunt for weapons of mass destruction," he said, adding that it would be "a deliberate process and a long-term effort." Russia -- which opposed the U.S.-led war on Iraq -- on Friday urged the coalition to give an early account of the WMD search. "We expect our U.S. and British colleagues to present this information in the nearest future," Itar-Tass news agency quoted Russia's U.N. ambassador Sergei Lavrov as saying. Lavrov said a briefing by chief U.N. weapons inspector Hans Blix to the Security Council on Thursday would offer a good opportunity for the United States and Britain to present their latest findings. "After all, we are working for a common cause, and it is absolutely clear that to draw a line under the Iraq problem one must take into account both what the coalition is doing there and assessments by (U.N. monitors)," he said. U.S. President George W. Bush will meet Russian President Vladimir Putin in St. Petersburg on Sunday as part of a trip aimed at mending ties with European countries that opposed the Iraq war. (Full story) Australian Defense Minister Robert Hill said Saturday the purpose of the expanded search team was to get the full picture of the WMD situation in Iraq. Speaking at an Asian Security Conference in Singapore, Hill said the search was already yielding evidence but "whether these so-called smoking guns as such can be found, I don't know." "I've no doubt at all that the picture at the end of this process will be of somebody who believed in weapons of mass destruction as a strategic tool ... and was clearly prepared to use them," Hill said. IAEA to return next week Meanwhile, the International Atomic Energy Agency plans to send a team to Iraq for the first time since the end of the war to conduct a safety inspection at an Iraqi nuclear facility that might have been looted, an agency spokesman said Friday. IAEA spokesman Mark Gwozdecky cautioned: "These are not weapons inspections. "We are planning to send a team to Iraq tentatively next Wednesday, June 4, with the purpose of verifying nuclear material held at the Tuwaitha Nuclear Research Center," Gwozdecky said. "This work flows from Iraq's obligations under the nuclear non-proliferation treaty," he added. IAEA Director General Mohamed ElBaradei told CNN on Friday: "We don't know what to expect. We have seen a lot of reports about looting. We are going to focus on nuclear materials that would [be] under verification. The coalition, however, says that they will take care of the safety and the security of radioactive sources. "I would, again, continue to say that we are ready to help in case our help is needed."
An Iraqi interim deputy foreign minister, Bassam Qubba, has been killed in an attack in the capital, Baghdad. A foreign ministry spokesman said unidentified gunmen fired on his car in al-Azimiya district on Saturday morning as he was on his way to work. Mr Qubba, the ministry's senior career diplomat, was shot in the stomach. He was taken to hospital but died shortly afterwards, the spokesman said. His driver was also hurt but there are no details so far of his injuries. The foreign ministry spokesman said he was shocked but not surprised by the murder of Mr Qubba. He expected such attacks to increase as the handover to the interim government on 30 June neared. BBC regional analyst Attila Kulcsar says the killing underlines the challenge facing Iraq's new government, which has been given legitimacy by the United Nations but now faces the test of whether it can do anything to curb the violence. Armed Iraqi groups are determined to derail the process with attacks on Iraqi security forces and politicians who they see as collaborating with US-led occupying forces, he adds. However, radical Shia cleric Moqtada Sadr - whose militia has fought US forces since March - has now issued conditional support for the interim Iraqi government, which he earlier rejected as a US puppet. He has also urged his supporters to stop attacking Iraqi security forces. Earlier attack The attack on Mr Qubba was the second on members of the interim government in the last four days. On Wednesday, Deputy Health Minister Ammar Safar escaped an attempt on his life in the same district while he was on his way to the health ministry. Gunmen opened fire on his car and then fled the scene as Mr Safar's guards returned fire. Mr Qubba, 60, was one of several deputy foreign ministers, and was responsible for legal issues. He had served as the acting chief of the Iraqi mission to the United Nations in New York and as the Iraqi ambassador to China. Azimiya is a predominantly Sunni Muslim district whose residents were strong supporters of Saddam Hussein's regime before it was toppled by US-led forces last year.
The U.N. Security Council voted Thursday in favor of a resolution that lifts sanctions against Iraq after almost 13 years and puts the United States and Great Britain in control of the country until a new government is established. Fourteen of the 15 Security Council members approved Resolution 1483; Syria's U.N. ambassador, Mikhail Wehbe, was not present. "The lifting of sanctions marks a momentous event for the people of Iraq," said John Negroponte, U.S. ambassador to the United Nations. "After more than a decade of being frozen out of the world economy, it is time for the Iraqi people to benefit from their natural resources." The 12-page resolution will dismantle the oil-for-food program in six months and will lift all sanctions imposed on Iraq since 1990 except those on weapons. Diplomats lauded the resolution as a victory for the Iraqi people, and the vote also marks a key win for the United States and Great Britain, which will retain significant control in Iraq with the backing of the international body. Under the resolution, Iraq's oil proceeds will go into a development fund with international monitoring, but the United States and Britain would have the authority to use the money for reconstruction. The oil money also will be temporarily immune from legal claims. U.S. officials have said they are concerned that Iraq's creditors, who say they are owed some $400 billion, might want some part of the revenue. The resolution will be reviewed after a year, a step sought by Germany and France so that the U.S.-led power of authority would not be open-ended. The resolution will end the effective control of the U.S.-led coalition once that authority can be turned over to an internationally recognized Iraqi government. The time frame for the transfer has not been specified. L. Paul Bremer, the U.S. civil administrator in Iraq, said Wednesday that an Iraqi national conference probably won't meet until July to choose an interim government. To facilitate the creation of a new Iraqi government, the resolution creates a mandate for a special representative of U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan. The representative will report to the Security Council. France, Russia and Germany led the U.N. opposition to the U.S.-led war in Iraq. Representatives from the three nations praised the resolution, which shows "there is a vital role to be played by the United Nations," U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell said, speaking in Paris, France, before the G8 summit. "[The resolution] was a compromise, but to make it possible, all participants made steps to accommodate," said Sergey Lavrov, Russia's ambassador to the United Nations. "In this resolution, we have left behind the divisions of the past for the sake of the people of Iraq," said Gunter Pleuger, Germany's U.N. ambassador. "It is not in a perfect way, but it is in an appropriate way," said Jean-Marc de la Sabliere, France's U.N. ambassador. "What we have to underline today is that the council is united." However, the Security Council has not agreed on the issue of weapons inspectors. The resolution leaves the door open to the resumption of U.N. weapons inspections, something France and the inspectors themselves support. "The verified disarmament of Iraq remains our shared objective," de la Sabliere said. "[The resolution] preserves the role of UNMOVIC and of the IAEA." The U.N. Monitoring, Verification and Inspection Commission and the International Atomic Energy Agency are the two U.N. agencies in charge of seeking Iraq's alleged weapons of mass destruction before the U.S.-led war. "The international inspectors alone can, in due course, reassure the international community that that objective has been attained," de la Sabliere said. Negroponte said the council has reached "no decision" on the issue. "One of the issues that will be taken up in the future is the mandate of UNMOVIC and the IAEA," he said.
Iraq's new Prime Minister, Iyad Allawi, says he has reached a deal to disband militias that opposed Saddam Hussein. About 100,000 fighters will either join the security forces or return to civilian life, Mr Allawi said. However the pact does not cover the Mehdi Army militia loyal to radical cleric Moqtada Sadr and observers say it is unlikely to affect the uprising. Meanwhile at least two people were killed as blasts rocked a mosque in the militia's stronghold of Kufa. About 10 others were hurt and a compound surrounding the mosque was damaged in the blasts, after ammunition used by fighters loyal to Mr Sadr apparently caught fire, witnesses said. A statement by the US military said there were no US forces near the mosque when the explosions occurred, around 1100 local time (0700 GMT). But Iraqi police who tried to provide assistance were fired on by unknown attackers within the mosque, it said. Iraqi officials said firefighters at the scene took two-and-a-half hours to extinguish the blaze, which left two walls of the mosque "completely blackened". Mr Sadr regularly gives sermons in the mosque. New pressure Nine political factions - most of them represented in Mr Allawi's interim cabinet - agreed to disband their associated militias by January 2005, when elections are due. Iyad Allawi Those that have chosen violence and lawlessness.. will be dealt with harshly Iyad Allawi They include the Kurdish peshmerga militias and the Badr Brigade of the Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq, a Shia group. But the agreement does not include the Shia Muslim Mehdi Army - fighting US-led forces in bloody battles around Kufa and other cities, including Najaf - or Sunni insurgents in central Iraqi cities like Falluja. "As of now, all armed forces outside of state control, as provided by this order, are illegal," the prime minister said. "Those that have chosen violence and lawlessness over transition and reintegration will be dealt with harshly." The BBC's Caroline Hawley in Baghdad said the announcement was designed to signal the new government's intention to put pressure on the militants.
In a move aimed at eliminating remnants of Iraq's former regime, U.S. authorities Friday dissolved the Iraqi Armed Forces, the ministries of defense and information and other security institutions that once supported Saddam Hussein's rule. An American senior coalition official said the move effectively disbands the Republican Guard and Revolutionary Command Council and cancels any military ranks or other designations conferred by the previous regime. It also puts an estimated 350,000 to 400,000 soldiers out of work, along with an estimated 2,000 Information Ministry employees. Military members who previously held the rank of colonel and higher will not be entitled to severance packages and cannot work for the new Iraqi government once it's established. Any soldier below the rank of colonel will be eligible to enlist in a new army. (Full story) In addition, coalition forces soon will implement an arms control program aimed at reducing the number of weapons on the streets in Iraq, U.S. Army Lt. Gen. David McKiernan said Friday. McKiernan, who led the ground war in Iraq, said the coalition will set up "designated locations" for Iraqis to hand over automatic and other heavy weapons. Iraqis, however, will be allowed to keep small arms for home protection, he said. "A detailed implementation plan is in the works," McKiernan said. "We're prepared to execute it soon after we receive the go-ahead." McKiernan said the measures also would prohibit concealed weapons and celebratory fire.
US forces raided a northern Iraqi town near Kirkuk overnight, possibly in search of a top Saddam Hussein deputy. The target seems to have been Izzat Ibrahim al-Douri, the highest ranking regime official still at large other than Saddam Hussein himself. A member of Iraq's governing council told the BBC he had been captured, but there has been no confirmation. The BBC's Nick Childs at the Pentagon says officials there could not verify the story, but did not deny it either. He says one official said he was "sceptical" about the report. The US military has not commented on the raid, which an Iraqi official called the largest ever in the region. The US has a $10m bounty on Mr Douri, who it accuses of being one of the key organisers of the insurgency around Samarra and Tikrit. Insurgency Saddam Hussein biographer Simon Henderson told the BBC that the capture of Mr Douri would be "a considerable victory for the Americans and a considerable defeat for the insurgency". If you have forgotten Halabja, we are ready to repeat the operation Izzat Ibrahim to the Kurds, reminding them of chemical attacks they suffered Saddam's right-hand man Douri family captured The French news agency AFP said Mr Douri's eldest son Ahmad has been commanding two insurgent brigades of 250 men each. Ahmad is receiving instructions and funds from his father, AFP reported, citing an Iraqi police official. The unnamed official said several members of the brigades had been captured in the overnight raids in the town of Hawijah, 45km (30miles) west of Kirkuk. One of Mr Douri's wives and a daughter were detained last week, along with the son of his doctor. Disputed battle The raid comes amid an ongoing dispute about a battle in Samarra on Sunday. The US says as many as 54 people were killed when two American convoys came under attack in the city, but morgue officials say they handled only eight dead. US Brigadier General Mark Kimmett has said the military's figures are only estimates, based on what he called battlefield reports. NOVEMBER DEATHS IN IRAQ US troops: 79 Non-US forces: 26 Foreign civilians: 6 Iraqis killed by insurgents: At least 32* Iraqis killed by coalition troops: At least 64* *No official statistics are kept for Iraqi deaths No Americans were killed in the battle, the fiercest since George Bush declared major combat operations at an end on 1 May. The convoys that came under attack were carrying new Iraqi banknotes. The battle rounded off a month that saw the highest number of US casualties in the country since the war. A US soldier was killed by a roadside bomb on Tuesday as a convoy left Samarra, military sources said. Close to Saddam Mr Douri, the possible target of Monday night's raid, was one of Saddam Hussein's closest and most trusted associates. Mr Henderson, the Saddam Hussein biographer, said Mr Douri is likely to have been in touch with the deposed Iraqi leader - and might know where he is. But he said it is not clear that Mr Douri would voluntarily tell the Americans that information even if captured alive. He is rumoured to be in poor health, and is known to have suffered from leukaemia in the past. Mr Douri was one of the key plotters who carried out the coup that brought the Baath Party to power in 1968. In later years he served as the Iraqi leader's number two in the powerful Revolution Command Council, as vice-chairman. He is the King of Clubs in the US "most wanted" deck of cards issued to help identify former regime members.
The International Red Cross has urged US forces to restore the Iraqi capital's power supply and other basic services as the threat to public health grows daily. Roland Huguenin-Benjamin of the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) told the BBC that less than half of the city's hospitals were functioning - the rest had been ransacked by looters. "There has to be a civil administration, it should be empowered and start working, the sooner the better," he said. Despite the general breakdown of law and order there have been some successes in the hunt for regime fugitives - the latest being the arrest of the former finance minister, Hikmat Ibrahim al-Azzawi. Iraqi police captured him in Baghdad and handed him over to US marines on Saturday. CAPTURED IRAQI LEADERS (AS RANKED BY US FORCES) 24. Samir al-Aziz al-Najem 45. Hikmat Ibrahim al-Azzawi 51. Watban Ibrahim al-Tikriti 52. Barzan Ibrahim al-Tikriti 55. General Amir al-Saadi (surrendered) Iraq's most wanted A Central Command spokesman, Captain Stewart Upton, said Mr al-Azzawi "could have information on the locations of money that belongs to the Iraqi people". He is number 45 on the coalition's list of 55 most wanted Iraqi officials, and the eight of diamonds in the US forces' pack of cards featuring them. Two more suspects have surrendered to US forces. US officials named them as Imad Hussein Abdallah al-Ani, said to have been involved in Iraq's suspected nerve gas programme, and Khala Khadr al-Salahat, an "international terrorist" belonging to the Palestinian Abu Nidal organisation. US redeployment US marines involved in seizing Baghdad have now withdrawn from the city, handing over to regular US Army troops, who are said to be more familiar with peacekeeping and reconstruction duties. But, in a further sign of chaos, looters can now be seen selling stolen weapons and ammunition - including Kalashnikov assault rifles - openly on the streets. Correspondents say much of Baghdad still has no running water. MIDDLE EAST AFTER SADDAM The after-effects of the war for the region The lack of sewage treatment and garbage collection is posing health problems, Mr Huguenin-Benjamin warned. "One of the major sewage treatment plants in the city was damaged in the war, then looted. It is in urgent need of maintenance and repair - otherwise there is a very serious health hazard if sewage is not treated properly in the hot summer." Despite the general chaos, doctors are returning to hospitals and working without pay, he said. But the lack of electricity means that medicines cannot be refrigerated and much hospital equipment lies idle, he said. The UN children's fund Unicef says piles of rubbish are accumulating at the hospitals and up to 70% of patients at the children's hospital now have diarrhoea. Meanwhile, reports say the first major convoy of food aid has arrived in Baghdad from Jordan. The flour and other goods will be stored in warehouses until distribution can be arranged. Anti-US feeling The BBC's Caroline Hawley in Baghdad says Iraqis remain deeply suspicious of American motives, noting that the oil ministry is one of the few government buildings not to have been looted. Mass demonstrations against the US presence are a daily occurrence, she says. A prominent Iraqi exile, former Foreign Minister Adnan Pachachi, has spoken out against the US Government awarding big reconstruction contracts for Iraq. "No one has the right to commit Iraq to obligations and costs. Only an Iraqi government can do that," he said in Kuwait. Foreign ministers of the six states which border Iraq, plus Egypt and Bahrain, have called for US-led forces to pull out of Iraq as soon as possible.
Is Washington's search for Saddam Hussein now in the home straight? Or is this simply what Iraq's American rulers would like us to believe? Financial markets are awash with rumours that Iraq's former leader has already been captured. Pentagon officials reply that they have nothing to say, but it seems there is a new American confidence in the wake of the deaths of Saddam's two powerful sons, Uday and Qusay. Past birthday party for Uday Hussein (second left) - US army photo Former bodyguard Adnan al-Musslit (right) was seized in Tikrit US forces are mounting relentless raids throughout the so-called "Sunni triangle" north of Baghdad, netting former regime officials and a wealth of documents, identity cards and Baath Party records. Even an album of family photos, complete with records of earlier encounters with Saddam Hussein, is taken away for examination. The pace of the search has increased dramatically. Coalition sources now speak of dozens of raids a day, with hundreds of arrests. The hunt brings together regular troops with shadowy groups of special forces and CIA officers, including an elite formation known as Task Force 20 - a secret unit also charged with unearthing evidence of those elusive weapons of mass destruction. 'Pieces of the puzzle' US troops invited the media to witness one of the latest, a pre-dawn operation Tuesday on houses in Tikrit - the heart of Saddam Hussein's former power base. Cameras rolled as troops used shotguns to blast their way into homes. US military officials say one of Saddam's senior bodyguards was captured. While women and children cowered and wailed, soldiers blindfolded their captives and examined papers and photos. Is an obsession with Saddam Hussein blinding Washington to other, more powerful forces which share the determination of old Baath party loyalists to throw the Americans out? "Each time we do something, we get information," said Lt. Col Steve Russell, of the US 4th Infantry Division, speaking at the scene. "Even if we don't get the people, we get documents. You just slap down the pieces of the puzzle and it keeps filling in." And when they find themselves in gun battles, he says, it is always with the same enemy. "As we kill or capture them, we learn that they are the sons of relatives of Saddam, or grandsons of cousins - things like that." But Saddam Hussein's state apparatus was huge and not everyone is convinced that his capture is just around the corner. "Certainly they're closing in, systematically eliminating the regime," says Middle East expert Adel Darwish. "But I'm sceptical that one or two raids will bring us closer to Saddam." Perhaps impressions are what count here. US troops, battered by recent losses (50 of their men killed since May) need to know that their hunt is not in vain. And Washington needs to convince Iraqis that it is safe to come forward and say what they know. 'Heavy-handed' But another lasting impression for many Iraqis will be the heavy-handed tactics the Americans use to pursue their quarry. Homes are damaged and in some cases destroyed. Innocent bystanders are killed by soldiers who seem to shoot first and ask questions later. SADDAM SONS KILLED Images of Uday and Qusay Hussein from a CD-Rom released by the US in Baghdad Parading the dead Iraqi leap of faith And is an obsession with Saddam Hussein - the ace of spades in their deck of cards of Iraq's "most wanted" - blinding Washington to other, more powerful forces which share the determination of old Baath party loyalists to throw the Americans out? From Iranian-inspired Shia militants to smugglers anxious to exploit post-war chaos, Iraq is full of people with a vested interest in making life difficult for the country's foreign invaders. It may well be that the net is closing on Saddam Hussein, but his removal won't signal the end of Washington's difficulties in Iraq.
The countries neighbouring Iraq have called for the US-led forces that toppled Saddam Hussein's regime to pull out of the country as soon as possible. They also demanded the speedy formation of a representative government in the country, with a central role for the United Nations - something the United States has already excluded. It comes a day after thousands of Iraqis took to the streets of Baghdad to protest against what they saw as a foreign occupation of their country. The foreign ministers of the group of six states which border Iraq, plus Egypt and Bahrain, issued the statement after meeting in the Saudi Arabian capital, Riyadh. They also spoke out against the exploitation of Iraqi oil by foreign powers, and recent US threats against Syria. IRAQ'S NEIGHBOURS Saudi Arabia Iran Jordan Kuwait Turkey Syria Speaking after the meeting, Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal emphasised the need to maintain the unity and territorial integrity of Iraq - and said any outside interference in Iraq's internal affairs would not be tolerated. Prince Saud also said that UN sanctions against Iraq should be lifted as soon as there was a legitimate government in place in Baghdad. The US wants to see a quick end to the economic sanctions against Iraq, freeing up sales of its oil which would help to finance the country's reconstruction. In other developments: The UN says its first big food convoy to be sent to Baghdad, which had been due to arrive on Friday, is still about 100 kilometres (60 miles) from the city The Pentagon announces that it has released more than 900 Iraqi prisoners, leaving about 6,850 Iraqis in US military custody The UN refugee agency says more than 250 people trying to flee Iraq are stranded in no-man's land at the border with Jordan, waiting for permission to enter the kingdom Abu Dhabi television broadcasts what it says is the last known footage of Saddam Hussein - it shows a man who looks like him waving at a cheering crowd in Baghdad and was allegedly filmed on 9 April, the day US forces entered the city US Central Command in Qatar announces that Iraqi Kurds near Mosul have handed Samir al-Aziz al-Najem, one of the top 55 most wanted leaders of Saddam Hussein's regime, over to coalition forces An international team of zoologists and vets is delayed in Kuwait on its way to assess the conditions at Baghdad zoo, where many animals are without food. The Middle Eastern states came together in Riyadh in the hope that the US would heed their collective call for a say in post-war arrangements, says the BBC's Heba Saleh. But so far, she says, the US has resisted attempts from the region to influence its policy on Iraq, and there is little expectation that the Riyadh meeting will change that. Our correspondent says Iraq's neighbours are concerned it will fragment into three small states - Sunni, Kurdish and Shia - which will almost certainly destabilise relations with minorities in neighbouring countries. They also do not like the prospect of an Iraq dominated by the US, which would upset the fragile balance of power in the region and tip it further to Israel's advantage, she says. 'Legitimate government' Prince Saud said the eight countries wanted to see a legitimate Iraqi Government set up "immediately if possible", but pending this, the occupying powers should ensure security in the country, which has been engulfed by looting and chaos. MIDDLE EAST AFTER SADDAM The after-effects of the war for the region "[The ministers] underlined the obligations of the occupying powers under the fourth Geneva Convention to maintain security and stability... and underlined their obligation to withdraw from Iraq and allow Iraqis to exercise their right to self-determination," the joint statement said. Iraq's neighbours also said they were ready to contribute to the reconstruction of the country. In their statement, the ministers said the Iraqi people "should administer and govern their country by themselves, and any exploitation of their natural resources should be in conformity with the will of the legitimate Iraqi government and its people. "Now Iraq is under an occupying power and any request for lifting sanctions must come when there is a legitimate government which represents the people... and which can comply with its duties toward lifting sanctions." Iraqi opposition leader Ahmad Chalabi - widely believed to be the Pentagon's favourite to lead post-war Iraq - has said an Iraqi interim authority could begin to run the country in "weeks rather than months". The ministers also condemned US threats against Syria for allegedly harbouring members of the ousted Iraqi regime and developing chemical weapons. They urged dialogue to promote regional stability.
Under fire, CIA chief George Tenet went behind closed doors Wednesday on Capitol Hill to face senators who are probing the reliability of intelligence information about Iraq. Tenet last week took responsibility for allowing a since-discredited line in President Bush January State of the Union address to remain in the speech. The statement claimed deposed Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein sought to buy uranium from Africa. The information -- which was used to underscore Iraq's interest in developing nuclear weapons -- was attributed to British intelligence. Democrats have used the uranium issue to question whether the Bush administration secured public backing for war in Iraq on the back of false information. And some Republicans say the president was poorly served by the CIA. "I have some very serious questions about what I think (is) one of the most important issues there could be, which is the credibility of the president of the United States," Sen. John Edwards of North Carolina, a Democratic presidential candidate, said going into the hearing. Sen. Olympia Snowe, R-Maine, said it was clear that the CIA's vetting of intelligence and what was passed onto the president was faulty. "It's failed the system and the process failed the president, and it failed the country," Snowe, another panel member, said. Tenet is speaking before the Senate Intelligence Committee, which is privately reviewing the use of U.S. intelligence before the war. Separately, the House Intelligence Committee will hold a public hearing next week on intelligence matters related to Iraq. Democrats are pressing for an open investigation, and even some Republicans say the administration needs to better explain how an assertion about Iraq based on questionable intelligence made its way into a major presidential speech at a time when Bush was trying to rally support for military action against Iraq. "This is a fact-finding mission we're going to be on," Republican Sen. Saxby Chambliss of Georgia, a member of the committee, told CNN Wednesday. Noting that the CIA removed a similar uranium claim from a speech Bush gave in Cincinnati, Ohio in October because it did not have confidence that the U.S. intelligence was accurate, Chambliss asked, "If they took it out in October, allowed it in January, then why did they? Why has nobody been forthcoming since January if, in fact, the information was not correct?" The White House has been trying to lower the heat surrounding the uranium statement, but Democrats have used it to broaden criticism of the administration. Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Massachusetts, said Monday the United States went to war Iraq "under false pretenses." In a scathing speech, Kennedy faulted both the administration's justification for war and its handling of Iraq's reconstruction after Saddam's fall from power. "They have undermined America's prestige and credibility in the world," Kennedy said in a speech delivered at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies. Michigan Sen. Carl Levin, the top Democrat on the Senate Armed Services Committee, agreed. "The misleading statement about African uranium is not an isolated issue," he said. Levin said Bush's statement was "one of several questionable statements and exaggerations" in the buildup to war. "It is therefore essential that we have a thorough, open and bipartisan inquiry into the objectivity, credibility and use of U.S. intelligence before the Iraq war," Levin said in a Senate floor speech. The 16 words Tenet took responsibility last week for allowing the uranium line -- or "the 16 words" as Republicans have called the issue -- to remain. "The president had every reason to believe that the text presented to him was sound. These 16 words should never have been included in the text written for the president," he said. "I am responsible for the approval process in my agency." The 16 words: "The British government has learned that Saddam Hussein recently sought significant quantities of uranium from Africa." Bush on Monday told reporters he had "darn good intelligence" on Iraq despite the discredited uranium line. National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice told CNN's Wolf Blitzer: "It is unfortunate that this one sentence, these 16 words, remained in the State of the Union, but this in no way has any effect on the president's larger case about Iraqi efforts to reconstitute the nuclear program, and most importantly in the bigger picture of Iraq's weapons of mass destruction program." House Majority Leader Tom DeLay, R-Texas, dismissed the escalating attacks from Democrats as partisan politics. "They think if they just get a little bit angrier, and a little bit meaner, and a little bit louder, the American people will start hating the president as much as they do," DeLay said in a statement. But criticism of the administration is not strictly partisan. While Republicans generally have been more supportive of the administration, a few have said it needs to further address the question of pre-war intelligence on Iraq. "It wasn't just the CIA involved here," said Sen. Chuck Hagel, R-Nebraska. "We had the vice president and his office involved, [Defense Secretary Donald] Rumsfeld, Condi Rice, [Secretary of State Colin] Powell's people. This wasn't just a one-man show." Hagel voted to give Bush the authority to go to war with Iraq, but he told reporters last week the administration's case for war was looking "weaker and weaker." He told CNN: "There's a cloud hanging over this administration."
Iraq's new governing council voted Tuesday to set up a special court with power to try ousted Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein and members of his regime for genocide and other war crimes, according to a spokesman for a former opposition group. The council will begin looking for judges who do not have ties to the former regime, so that the court can be seated "as soon as possible," said Entifadh Qanbar, a spokesman for the Iraqi National Congress, one of the seven political groups represented on the council. "The 55 who are on the [U.S.] list of the most-wanted [Iraqis] would be tried before this court for war crimes," said Qanbar, adding that others could be charged as well. In New York, a United Nations spokesman said a delegation from the council would address the Security Council probably next Tuesday, raising some tricky diplomatic issues since six diplomats from Saddam's regime still hold Iraq's U.N. credentials and occupy the country's mission. While the Security Council is likely to agree to let the delegation sit at the council table and address it, the United States as the sovereign or occupying power in Iraq must decide "under what banner" they will come, according to a U.N. official. "Will they be here for the U.S. or the coalition or a delegation of the governing council of Iraq? Or will they be Iraqi delegates? The U.S. has to decide how they want to handle it," the official said. During its third day of meetings Tuesday, the Iraqi council also discussed rules of procedure and a method for determining council leadership. Among the ideas debated were a rotating presidency and multiple presidents, but the group arrived at no conclusions. In addition, the council created a committee to restore properties illegally seized by the Saddam regime, Qanbar said. The 25-member council, originally planned as an advisory council, was granted more executive powers to expedite the transition of power from the U.S.-backed Coalition Provisional Authority to Iraqis. (List of members) Other items of business will be establishing a constitution -- leading to national elections -- and appointing ministers and diplomats. U.S. civilian administrator L. Paul Bremer told reporters Tuesday that once the constitution is approved in a referendum, elections will be held and "the coalition's job will be done. We have no desire to stay a day longer than necessary." "The timing of how long the coalition stays here is effectively in the hands of the Iraqi people," Bremer said. The delegation going to the United Nations next week may include Akila Al Hashami, a member of Iraq's foreign ministry, Adnan Pachachi, a former Iraqi foreign minister who now represents the Iraqi Independent Democrats, and Ahmed Chalabi, head of the Iraqi National Congress, the U.N. spokesman said. If they were to ask the U.N. General Assembly to assume Iraq's seat, a formal request would likely have to come from the U.S.-led coalition as sovereign authority in the country. That might raise problems among the assembly's 191 members. The U.N. special representative on Iraq -- Sergio Vieira de Mello -- also is expected to address the Security Council next Tuesday.
Coalition forces resumed air attacks on Baghdad late on Saturday in what a BBC correspondent said was some of the heaviest bombing since the war began. Anti-aircraft fire crackled into the night as blasts hit the south-east of the city and at least two bombs struck the centre. The Iraqi capital has been under air attack all day, with the information ministry targeted by cruise missiles in the morning. Saturday's air strikes comes a day after a blast in a popular city market - blamed by the Iraqis on coalition bombing - reportedly killed scores of people. AIR CAMPAIGN TO DATE Night attack on Baghdad Coalition has dropped 6,000 precision-guided bombs US has fired 675 Tomahawk cruise missiles Coalition warplanes have flown more than 1,000 missions Source: Pentagon figures on 29 March The new attacks - believed to involve B-52 bombers among other hardware - are targeting units of the Republican Guard defending the Iraqi capital. The BBC's Andrew Gilligan reports that much larger bombs are now being used and, as night fell in the city, the rumble of explosions was almost continuous. The top floors of the information ministry building, a base for many foreign journalists, were badly damaged by the Tomahawk missiles. Iraqi Information Minister Mohammed Saeed al-Sahaf said the strike was aimed at stopping the world seeing television pictures of the effects of coalition bomb attacks. Calls for revenge Pictures of the carnage at al-Nasser market in Baghdad's Shula district have been broadcast on Arabic satellite channels throughout the Middle East. IRAQ CAMPAIGN Map of Iraq Map: Military operations Children have been shown in agony with blood-soaked bandages on their heads and faces. In the hospital corridors, wailing women are seen prostrate with grief. Iraqi hospital sources said 55 people had been killed, while Mr al-Sahaf told Lebanese television that 58 people were dead and he expected the death toll to rise. If the number of casualties is confirmed, it would be the largest single loss of civilian life since the war began. The BBC's Rageh Omaar reports that the market is in a part of Baghdad which is almost exclusively Shia Muslim - a religious community seen by coalition strategists as potential allies. Our correspondents found relatives of the dead and injured demanding revenge on America and say the mood is one of extreme anger. Iraqi officials said the market was hit by an American cruise missile but coalition spokesmen insist that a misfiring Iraqi missile could have caused the deaths. Downing Street, citing intelligence chiefs, alleged on Saturday that Saddam Hussein had sacked the commander of Iraqi air defence because of "poor performance". 'No retreat' As coalition fighter planes pounded the Iraqi capital, defence officials denied calling a temporary halt to their advance on Baghdad. 'Enemy' tank shown on Iraqi television Iraqi television showed three abandoned 'enemy' tanks There have been suggestions that the advance had been delayed because of Iraqi resistance and overstretched supply lines from Kuwait, up to 500 kilometres (300 miles) away. The BBC's David Willis, who is with US marines about 160 kilometres (100 miles) south of Baghdad, says some troops have had their rations cut to just one meal a day. Iraqi satellite television has been showing pictures of three damaged American tanks and another vehicle abandoned near Najaf. A presenter said the crews had fled after a confrontation with Iraqis. American troops have been highlighting a success on the ground on Saturday with the seizure of a large arsenal in the war-torn town of Nasiriya, south of Baghdad. The BBC's Andrew North reports that marines found enough ammunition of all kinds to supply a sizeable force for weeks. Also at the site was what appears to be a decontamination unit and chemical weapons experts are on their way to investigate further.
President Bush declared Tuesday that rebuilding Iraq, following a U.S.-led invasion there, will be a "massive and long-term undertaking," one that he suggested would require further sacrifice. Appearing to address concerns about the rising number of U.S. military deaths in Iraq, Bush declared that anyone who attacks U.S. troops "will be met with direct and decisive force." And he said the U.S. commitment to Iraq would not be shaken, despite attacks from "scattered groups of terrorists" inside Iraq. "There will be no return to tyranny in Iraq," he said, adding that the U.S. presence was needed to assure that Iraq does not fall back into the hands of those loyal to deposed leader Saddam Hussein. The president vowed that the United States will not leave Iraq "before freedom is fully established," a line apparently aimed at some critics abroad and at home who have questioned the continued military presence in the country. A Republican congressman, Curt Weldon of Pennsylvania, Tuesday joined those urging that the troops leave Iraq as soon as possible. Speaking to a group of business executives in Washington, Weldon, a strong supporter of the war in Iraq, said one of Congress' "greatest concerns is that our government not get bogged down with our military for the long term." He added, "Yes, we want to guarantee stability in that country," but steps should be taken so that "as soon as possible we can bring our troops back home." But Bush emphasized that "the rise of Iraq, as an example of moderation and democracy and prosperity, is a massive and long-term undertaking." Speaking at a White House re-enlistment ceremony for service members, the president did not provide a specific timeline for when the United States would pull troops out of Iraq. He said about 230,000 Americans are serving in or near the country. Bush's comments were among his most extensive about Iraq since he declared an end to major combat on May 1. They come at a time of sporadic attacks against U.S. and allied forces in Iraq, and as some lawmakers, mostly Democrats, question whether the administration exaggerated the threat from Iraq before the war. There have been 65 U.S. military deaths since May 1. The Pentagon has classified 25 of them as "hostile." Bush's comments were noteworthy not only for what he said -- affirming his commitment to helping Iraqis build a democratic government -- but for what he did not mention. There was no reference to Saddam's fate -- the ousted Iraqi president remains unaccounted for more than two months after the fall of his regime following the invasion -- and just a passing reference to weapons of mass destruction. Leading into the war, the Bush administration had argued that Saddam was developing and harboring WMD. No such weapons have been found since the war, but the Bush administration has pointed to the discovery of centrifuge parts and tractor-trailers as evidence of Saddam's development of WMD. The president made it clear, however, that he believes the invasion of Iraq was justified. "We ended a regime that possessed weapons of mass destruction, harbored and supported terrorists, suppressed human rights and defied the just demands of the United Nations and the world," Bush said. "True monuments of Saddam Hussein's rule have been brought to light: the mass graves, the torture chambers, the jail cells for children."
Family members of two soldiers found dead Saturday told Americans that the war in Iraq has not ended and spoke of the cost of freedom. Sgt. 1st Class Gladimir Philippe, 37, of Linden, New Jersey, and Pfc. Kevin Ott, 27, of Columbus, Ohio were found dead approximately 20 miles northwest of Baghdad, U.S. Central Command said, after an exhaustive search using helicopters, armored vehicles and tanks. Renisse Philippe, Gladimir's father, spoke to reporters in Linden, New Jersey. "Every day I returned back from work, I turned on the TV to see the news. But every day people die, people die," Philippe said. "The government says the war is over but the war is not over, that's what I say. People die every day -- almost every day." Ott's brother-in-law, Jim Pack, said Ott joined the military in January 2002, motivated by the September 11 terrorist attacks. "We understand very vividly that freedom is not free," Pack said. "The price is very high. And we understand that they have a job to do to ensure that freedom for us, and we are very proud of all of them." The government is expected to classify the deaths as "hostile," raising to 23 the total number of U.S. troops killed by hostile fire in Iraq since the end of major combat was announced May 1. Six British troops have died in hostile fire during the same period -- all in an incident this past week. Renisse Philippe said his son leaves behind a son and an ex-wife in Germany. He said his son had also been stationed in Russia and Haiti, and had much training and experience for facing hostile situations. Pack said Ott loved being a member of the military. "Absolutely loved it," Pack told reporters. "He'd actually come out and said it. He'd finally found his niche." Ott's family expressed condolences to Philippe's relatives and those of all the other soldiers who have died in the effort. A number of casualties occurred in recent days. In the latest reported assault on coalition forces, a U.S. soldier was killed and four were wounded Friday night when their convoy was attacked in a northern neighborhood of Baghdad, a U.S. military spokesman said. An Iraqi, who was working as an interpreter, was also wounded in the attack just before 11 p.m. local time (1900 GMT) Friday in the district of Thawra, the spokesman said. The wounded were taken to the Army's 28th combat support hospital in Baghdad. A day earlier, two U.S. troops were killed and eight wounded, the military said. One U.S. military official has called the rash of confrontations between Iraqis and U.S. personnel a "classic phase of insurgency." It was not immediately clear how Ott and Philippe died, but they were last reported traveling in a Humvee near a checkpoint that has been the site of attacks against U.S. forces. Twelve people were in custody in connection with the case, officials said. Also, on Saturday night two explosions were heard in Baghdad's Al Salihiya district, according to Iraqis and U.S. soldiers near the site of the explosion. There were no reports of causalities in the incident. U.S. soldiers guarding the Iraqi National Museum said the explosions came as a vehicle approached their position and sped away. Several Iraqi witnesses near the museum said two men driving in a red Volkswagen threw grenades in an attempt to hit a U.S. Paladin Howitzer tank that was adjacent to a small office building. The men missed and instead struck the front of the building that housed a travel agency and a restaurant. Neither of the stores were occupied at the time of the explosions which occurred at about 9:30 p.m. local time (1:30 p.m. EDT). Within a few days, Central Command will complete a review of the progress made in Operation Desert Scorpion, which has netted hundreds of suspects and large amounts of weapons, the Pentagon sources said. The U.S. military is considering whether to alter its current efforts to bring an end to the anti-coalition attacks, Pentagon sources said Friday. But Defense officials said there is no current plan to change the military strategy. Operation Desert Scorpion is the largest military deployment since the height of the Iraq war. Powell: 'We're going to stick with it' U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell, asked Friday about the mounting casualties, told reporters, "It's not possible yet to characterize what's happening in terms such as 'an organized insurgency' or 'it has a central nervous system directing it.' "We are seeing a combination of leftover Baathists taking it out on the soldiers who have come to provide security and hope for the Iraqi people, Fedayeen (Saddam's paramilitary fighters), (and) there are a lot of criminals who are loose." The region is also still gripped by looting, he added. But Powell said he is "quite confident" of the ability of chief U.S. Civil Administrator for Iraq Paul Bremer and Lt. Gen. John Abizaid, the next head of the U.S. Central Command taking over from Gen. Tommy Franks, "to impose security on the region in due course. But it will take some time, and regrettably there will be casualties." "I mourn for the loss of every young man or woman who puts his life or her life at risk and loses their life in the cause of freedom," he added. "But we're going to stick with it and it's going to take time and patience ... we will take whatever time is necessary.
US raises pressure on Iraqi capital Iraqi soldiers drive round Baghdad The Iraqi regime maintain a clear presence in Baghdad Coalition commanders have promised more raids on Baghdad to drive home their claims that the Iraqi leadership is losing control. Saturday's first incursion by US ground forces into the city was intended to test Iraqi responses and future raids will be aimed at specific targets, coalition officials say. Republican Guard units protecting the capital are "dead" and constant air patrols are now possible, unhindered by Iraqi defences, they add. Streams of coalition tanks and armoured vehicles crossed the Euphrates river at dawn, as US forces reinforced their positions south-west of Baghdad. US-led forces have also moved on to target Tikrit, the ancestral home and stronghold of Iraqi President Saddam Hussein, according to military officials. But Iraqi authorities continue to deny the advances claimed by the coalition, including the first daytime foray by a column of US tanks and armoured vehicles across Baghdad's city limits. Information Minister Mohammed Saeed al-Sahaf said Iraqi forces had repulsed an American attack from the south, claiming: "We were able to chop off their rotten heads." State television read a statement from Saddam Hussein and then broadcast pictures of him and both sons at a military meeting, though the date and authenticity could not be established independently. Daylight message US Major-General Gene Renuart at the Central Command headquarters in Qatar said coalition forces were now able to enter any part of Baghdad any time they want. He said Saturday's raid into Baghdad from the captured international airport on the outskirts of the city sent an important message. PUSH FOR BAGHDAD Map: Fighting in Baghdad Baghdad: Iraq's nerve-centre Opposing forces "I think that it was very clear to the people of Baghdad that coalition forces were in the city," he said. "That image is important, and so I think being in the daytime was a very clear statement to the Iraqi regime as well that we can move at times and places of our choosing, even into their capital city." Coalition officials said about 1,000 Iraqis were killed as US troops battled their way to the outskirts of Baghdad. But western journalists, including BBC crews, who fanned out across the city of five million people later found no sign of US forces. They said the Iraqi regime was obviously still in control of Baghdad, with members of Fedayeen militia driving around firing weapons into the air. Iraqi television has announced that the authorities will impose a travel ban in and out of Baghdad from 6pm to 6am beginning on Sunday night. Fresh tactics A new stage of the air campaign, dubbed "urban close air support" has begun with at least 12 planes available 24 hours a day to respond quickly as soon as targets emerge. Some large explosions were reported in Baghdad overnight, including some strikes which left buildings still reverberating 30 minutes later, reports said. BAGHDAD SKYLINE US soldiers entering Baghdad Baghdad webcam: This service may be interrupted But the head of the US air campaign, Lieutenant-General Michael Moseley said bombing raids had begun to wane, having achieved many of their objectives. "The Iraqi military as an organised defence in large combat formations doesn't really exist anymore," he said. There were still Republican Guard soldiers around, he conceded, saying: "We haven't killed all of them but the ones that are still around are walking with a bit of a limp." The BBC's Pentagon correspondent, Nick Childs, says strikes on Iraqi forces around Tikrit are now being increased. Special forces have already taken control of the road north from Baghdad to Tikrit, which has been seen as a possible second power base for the Iraqi regime. Fierce fighting is also expected again at Karbala where an attempted incursion into the central city was stopped by strong resistance on Saturday.
At least 11 members of the same family - mostly children - have been killed in a coalition air strike on a residential district in central Iraq, western news reports say. Hospital sources in Hilla, about 80 kilometres (50 miles) south of Baghdad, said they were among 33 civilians killed and more than 300 injured in the attack early on Tuesday morning. US Central Command said preliminary investigation had not "turned up any evidence of this alleged incident", but officials were continuing to look into it. On Monday, US soldiers killed seven Iraqi women and children at a checkpoint near the southern city of Najaf. US commanders are also investigating the Najaf killing, but their first reaction was to back the troops. Click for map of coalition advance on Baghdad Correspondents say the incidents will increase criticism of US-led troops who have already engaged Republican Guard forces defending Baghdad. The chairman of the US Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Richard Myers, said the troops would launch their big push "as soon as we're ready". Key military developments: Two Republican Guard divisions move to reinforce units defending Baghdad as they come under more intense bombardment HAVE YOUR SAY The strategy, if one can call it that, was flawed from the beginning Neil, USA Send us your comments Iraq says its forces have foiled a "landing attempt" by British forces near the northern city of Mosul. UK officials will neither confirm nor deny the incident The US says it has seized an Iraqi general, who has provided information on Iraqi deployments Revenge call The attack near Hilla began on Monday as part of the US-led advance towards Baghdad. IRAQ CAMPAIGN Map: Military operations Fact file: US supply lines Republican guard US forces said many Iraqis and at least one American were killed in fierce fighting there - the closest the clashes have been to the capital. Hilla hospital director Murtada Abbas said the bombing had targeted the Nader residential area. Correspondents reported seeing children wrapped in blankets on the floor of the hospital. Among them was Razek al-Kazem al-Khafaji, who said he had lost his wife, six children, his father, his mother, and two brothers. He said the family was fleeing fierce fighting in Nasiriya, further south, when they were attacked. "God take our revenge on America," he was reported as saying. Advance on Baghdad Correspondents travelling with advance units of coalition troops say they have already clashed with units of Republican Guards some 70 kilometres south of Baghdad. The BBC's David Willis says he has seen half a dozen Iraqi bodies by the roadside alone - the result of a fierce battle lasting 45 minutes a few miles east of the Saddam Canal. CASUALTIES OF WAR US: 43 military dead (including 11 in accidents, 2 under investigation), 17 missing UK: 26 military dead (including 15 in accidents, 5 to 'friendly fire') Iraq: Iraq: Military casualties not disclosed Civilian casualties: Nearly 600 dead Figures from respective governments The ground clashes - supported with air strikes and artillery - continued as coalition aircraft kept up an intense bombardment of Republican Guard positions on the southern outskirts of Baghdad. General Myers said US officials had seen dispersals of Iraqi troops "into neighbourhoods and things like that" - but no retreat. "They have moved some of their units around trying to reinforce. But some of them have been degraded to pretty lower percentages of combat capability, below 50% - I think at least two [division]," General Myers said. Other developments: US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld denies rumours of a ceasefire negotiation, saying the only thing to discuss is Iraq's unconditional surrender US Secretary of State Colin Powell is in Turkey on the first foreign trip by a senior US official since the war began. In a message read out on Iraqi television, Iraqi President Saddam Hussein calls on Iraqis to hit US and UK forces everywhere. Iraqi authorities say two buses carrying American and European "human shields" have been attacked by a US warplane on the Baghdad-Amman highway
U.S. troops arrested the interim governor of Najaf on kidnapping and corruption charges Monday as they continued efforts to quell attacks on coalition troops in Iraq. The arrest of Abu Haydar Abdul Mun'im "demonstrates the coalition's determination to enforce the rule of law in Iraq," a statement from the U.S.-led provisional authority said. Mun'im's deputy will replace him as interim governor, the statement said. Mun'im is accused of kidnapping and holding hostages, pressuring government employees to perform financial crimes, attacking a bank official and stealing funds, the statement said. Details of the charges were not released. He was arrested at the request of Iraqi court officials in Najaf, south of Baghdad, and will be tried under Iraqi law, according to the coalition provisional authority. "They have been investigating these allegations for some time before concluding that there is sufficient evidence to warrant arrest," the authority's statement said. U.S. authorities have struggled to restore order in Iraq since ousting former leader Saddam Hussein in April. Remnants of Saddam's ruling Baath Party and other groups are blamed for attacks on coalition forces that have killed 23 Americans and six British soldiers since President Bush declared the end of major combat May 1. In the latest attack, Iraqis fired a rocket-propelled grenade at U.S. troops late Sunday in the central city of Fallujah, west of Baghdad. No troops were injured, but a free-lance sound technician for NBC was wounded and treated in an Army hospital after the attack, an NBC spokesman said. NBC identified the technician as Australian Jeremy Little. Shortly afterward, three civilians were killed when their truck slammed into a fire support vehicle responding to the attack, the U.S. military said. Soldiers from the Army's 4th Infantry Division conducted eight raids from late Sunday through Monday as part of Operation Sidewinder, the latest effort to put down remaining Iraqi resistance. Soldiers took 32 people in custody, seized 10 AK-47 rifles, two pistols and a mortar and impounded 8 million Iraqi dinars, U.S. Central Command said. Operation Sidewinder is focusing on what Central Command officials call "the nexus of paramilitary activity in central Iraq," a 70-mile (112-kilometer) swath of territory running from Baghdad north to Samarra. In one raid, a man whom U.S. troops identified as a Baath Party colonel was captured with five others, Central Command said. At the same time, soldiers from the 1st Armored Division moved through Baghdad, arresting 148 people as the Pentagon wrapped up another operation dubbed Desert Scorpion. That operation resulted in 1,300 arrests and the seizure of hundreds of weapons, $9 million in U.S. currency and 1.5 billion Iraqi dinars, said Gen. Richard Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Secretary of State Colin Powell said Monday that U.S. forces still face "pockets of resistance" in Iraq but said U.S. officials see no signs of nationwide, organized resistance. "I think as the situation improves, and as people see that the economy is starting and as the political process picks up and Iraqis start to take responsibility for their own future, I think this will come under control," Powell told NBC.
 The U.S. military has launched a new operation in Iraq in an attempt to crush surviving Saddam Hussein loyalists and "paramilitary elements" believed to be behind a series of lethal attacks, officials said Sunday. Operation Sidewinder is spearheaded by members of the Army's 4th Infantry Division and includes ground, armor and air elements, according to officials familiar with the operation. Since President Bush announced the end of hostilities in Iraq on May 1, more than 20 Americans and six British troops have been killed by hostile fire. The operation was under way in an area of central Iraq from Baghdad to Samarra along the Tigris River, which U.S. Central Command said is "the location of several destabilizing influences in the region." Exile leader Ahmed Chalabi said his Iraqi National Congress believes Saddam has taken refuge in a "long and big area" about 150 miles long from northeast of Baghdad to the Euphrates Valley west of the city. Chalabi said he does not think Saddam is personally coordinating attacks but had put in motion a plan to fight U.S. forces after his ouster in April. "There is some evidence that it was formulated in writing before the war started, for after the war," Chalabi said. "And I think that Saddam had this plan done, and it's being implemented by the remnants of his regime." Officials told CNN more than 60 Iraqis have been taken into custody so far, along with a number of weapons and documents that may be of value to U.S. intelligence analysts probing the forces behind the attacks. Last week, Lt. Gen. John Abizaid -- the Bush administration's pick to replace Gen. Tommy Franks as Central Command chief -- told a Senate committee that U.S. troops also face opposition from fighters from other Arab and Islamic nations who have converged on Iraq. Another string of weekend raids was aimed at Islamic extremists in the northern city of Mosul, Central Command said. Soldiers from the Army's 101st Airborne Division Saturday detained 15 people and seized four rifles, a pistol, a grenade and an artillery shell, along with Baath Party documents and Republican Guard uniforms. Efforts to capture Saddam are more important than the pursuit of al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden, Republican Sen. John McCain of Arizona said Sunday. Speaking on CBS's "Face the Nation," McCain said: "There's very little doubt that there is at least some degree of organization amongst these activities that are going on, and there is no doubt that there are elements who are saying that Saddam will be back." Mounting casualty figures The most recent American casualties were two soldiers wounded when a convoy was attacked on a highway in Baghdad, U.S. military officials said. An Iraqi civilian was killed in the attack. The Americans were assigned to the 18th Military Police Brigade, the official said. The extent of their wounds is unknown. The convoy was hit by an unidentified explosive device as it traveled along Highway 8, a main road between Baghdad and the airport, a military official said. It came just hours after U.S. soldiers guarding the Iraqi National Museum in Al Salihiya were attacked Saturday evening as a vehicle approached their position and then sped away. Several Iraqi witnesses said two men driving a red Volkswagen threw grenades in an apparent attempt to hit a U.S. self-propelled Paladin howitzer positioned adjacent to small office building. There were no reports of casualties. Two soldiers were found dead Saturday about 20 miles northwest of Baghdad after an exhaustive search using helicopters, armored vehicles and tanks,U.S. Central Command said. Sgt. 1st Class Gladimir Philippe, 37, of Linden, New Jersey, and Pfc. Kevin Ott, 27, of Columbus, Ohio, were traveling in a Humvee near a checkpoint when military officials lost contact with them on Wednesday Ott's brother-in-law, Jim Pack, said: "We understand very vividly that freedom is not free," Pack said. "The price is very high. And we understand that they have a job to do to ensure that freedom for us, and we are very proud of all of them." It was not immediately clear how Ott and Philippe died, but 12 people have been detained in connection with the case, officials said. The U.S. government is expected to classify their deaths as "hostile," raising to 23 the total number of U.S. troops killed by hostile fire in Iraq since the end of major combat was announced May 1. The six British troops all died in a single incident last week.
President George W. Bush told the world Wednesday night that the United States and its allies had launched a campaign to oust Saddam Hussein from Iraq and "free its people." Bush warned the nation that the conflict "could be longer and more difficult than some predict." But he assured Americans that "this will not be a campaign of half-measures, and we will accept no outcome except victory." Bush's address marked the second time the president has faced the nation with news that the United States is at war. The first came in October 2001 as Bush launched the war on terrorism and U.S. troops entered Afghanistan. (Full story) Bush said that "coalition forces will make every effort to spare innocent civilians from harm." But Bush warned that that goal may not be simple to reach. "Saddam Hussein has placed Iraqi troops and equipment in civilian areas, attempting to use innocent men, women and children as shields for his own military; a final atrocity against his people," Bush said. Earlier in the evening, a Pentagon official told CNN that cruise missiles were being fired against "a target of opportunity" -- a "decapitation attack" aimed at killing Saddam before the planned start of the war. Air raid sirens were heard in Baghdad at about 5:30 a.m. Thursday (9:30 p.m. Wednesday EST) about 90 minutes after the U.S. deadline for Saddam to step down or face a U.S.-led military attack. At 10:15 p.m. EST, the president spoke from the Oval Office for just over four minutes. Less than half an hour before Bush's address, White House spokesman Ari Fleischer announced that the president would speak on short notice. He said Wednesday night's actions were only the beginning of a "broad and concerted" military campaign to oust the Iraqi president and his regime. "American and coalition forces are in the early stages of military operations to disarm Iraq, to free its people and to defend the world from grave danger," Bush said. Bush said the United States has Iraq's best interest in mind as the invasion begins. "We come to Iraq with respect for its citizens, for their great civilization and for the religious faiths they practice. We have no ambition in Iraq, except to remove a threat and restore control of that country to its own people," he said. Bush also told Americans that "helping Iraqis achieve a united, stable and free country will require our sustained commitment." In closing, Bush said, "We will pass through this time of peril and carry on the work of peace. We will defend our freedom. We will bring freedom to others. And we will prevail. May God bless our country and all who defend her."
U.S. troops were testing suspicious materials as possible chemical weapons agents at an agricultural complex in central Iraq, U.S. military officials said Monday. Samples of the materials are being studied, and no conclusive determination has been made, said Brig. Gen. Benjamin Freakly of the Army's 101st Airborne Division. The materials, stored in barrels and buried, had not been weaponized and might simply be pesticides, Freakly said. On Friday, elements of the 101st Airborne Division visited two sites in an area south of Baghdad near Karbala. One site had been used for military training and the other as an agricultural compound. At the military camp, tests found no conclusive evidence of chemical weapons being present. In fact, tests there indicated pesticides were likely present, Freakly said. At the agricultural compound, the division found 10 25-gallon drums and three 55-gallon drums buried within bunkers 4 to 6 feet deep, Freakly said. The 63rd Medical Company tested substances found in the drums to see whether chemical agents were present. Initial tests proved inconclusive, he said. Monday, a new, higher-level test was administered using special testing vehicles called FOX vehicles, Freakly said. Those tests indicated the presence of nerve and blister agents, but the tests sometimes show false positives, according to Freakly. The substances may be pesticides or they may be chemical agents that are "non-weaponized," he said. "It's a liquid chemical, but it hasn't been put in a delivery means or anything that could be dispersed against our soldiers." If it were weaponized, Freakly said, "We would see it in probably an artillery projectile or in an artillery missile, or perhaps in an aircraft bomb or something that the enemy would spray troops with." At the United Nations, Iraqi Ambassador Mohammed Aldouri was asked about the find and said any speculation about chemical weapons was American "propaganda." "We have no chemical areas," Aldouri said. "We say that several times and we underline that right now. We don't have chemical weapons." Freakly also said the 101st Airborne found a large cache of conventional weapons at the agricultural site. As part of Iraq's cease-fire agreement ending the 1991 Persian Gulf War, Baghdad promised to destroy all its weapons of mass destruction, biological, chemical or nuclear, and submit to United Nations weapons inspections. The Bush administration has insisted Iraq has not accounted for its alleged weapons of mass destruction. Asked whether it appeared that U.N. weapons inspectors had visited the site, Freakly said he would find it "hard to believe" that inspectors would have found the two sites, which are located behind a civilian complex near the Euphrates River. Former chief U.N. weapons inspector Terry Taylor said it is likely Iraq has stashes of chemical agents hidden at civilian sites "which they would pull out to fill munitions at the right time." It is too soon to tell whether that is the case in this instance, he added. Some soldiers involved in the raid at the military camp reported feeling ill, but it appears they were suffering from dehydration, Freakly said. They're all feeling fine now, he added. Asked whether the found materials were a "smoking gun," a military official at the Pentagon said, "It has potential." U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld declined comment on the find, saying more tests must be conducted.
Iraq is unlikely to use chemical or biological weapons to defend itself from a U.S.-led invasion because world opinion would turn against it, chief U.N. weapons inspector Hans Blix told CNN Wednesday. "If they have any -- and still, that's a big if -- I would doubt that they would use it because a lot of countries and people in the world are negative to the idea of waging war," Blix said. "If the Iraqis were to use any chemical weapons, then I think the public opinion around the world would immediately turn against Iraq, and they would say, as well, that the invasion was justified." President Bush has given Iraqi President Saddam Hussein a deadline of 8 p.m. ET Wednesday to leave Iraq and go into exile or face attack by more than 250,000 U.S. and British troops massed in the region. Iraq has rejected the ultimatum. Even though top Iraqi leaders, including Saddam, could be in mortal danger from a U.S.-led invasion, Blix said pride may keep them from using poison gas against advancing allied troops. "Saddam Hussein has certainly figured himself to be a sort of emperor of Mesopotamia and the leader of the Arab world," Blix said. "So I think he very likely cares very much about his reputation." The United States and Britain accused Iraq of failing to comply with U.N. resolutions demanding it give up chemical and biological weapons, long-range missiles and any nuclear weapons program. They say Iraq must be disarmed -- by force, if necessary -- to prevent Saddam from arming terrorists with weapons of mass destruction. Iraq says it has complied with U.N. disarmament resolutions. Iraq showered U.N. with letters of explanation Blix said there are "still a lot of question marks" about whether Iraq has destroyed its weapons of mass destruction. "And I am among the people who are most curious to know whether they will find any or not," he said. Weapons inspectors worked in Iraq for three and a half months before leaving Tuesday for Cyprus after the U.S. ultimatum. Blix said Iraq offered them better conditions than earlier inspection teams and agreed to allow the destruction of many of its al-Samoud 2 missiles, which inspectors determined had a range beyond the 93 miles (150 kilometers) allowed in U.N. resolutions. On the other hand, he said, Iraqi officials did not provide much new information until February, after a massive U.S. and British military buildup was under way. "They sort of showered us with letters trying to explain this or that," Blix said. But even then, he said, "When we examine it, we find relatively little new material in it."
Iraqi President Saddam Hussein appeared on television early Thursday morning, characterizing the U.S.-led military campaign as "criminal acts" and saying his nation would be victorious. "These days will go as God wills," Saddam said. "This is your share of dignity, of victory." Saddam appeared wearing a military uniform and gave Thursday's date, March 20, as evidence that the taped speech was made shortly before it was aired and not before the U.S. attack on Baghdad. (Speech transcript) "Draw your sword, I am not afraid," he said. "No one will be victorious if he is not a man and a brave man." The speech came about three hours after the U.S.-led coalition launched a strike, which Pentagon officials described as a "decapitation attack" to take out the Iraqi leader. More than 40 satellite-guided Tomahawk cruise missiles were fired from U.S. warships in the Red Sea and Persian Gulf, military officials said. It is very difficult to successfully target a single person on the ground in such a bombing, Pentagon officials said. In Saddam's quick appearance on television he struck a defiant tone as he read from handwritten notes. "We pledge that we will confront the invaders," Saddam said, adding that Iraqi resistance will cause the coalition to "lose any hope in accomplishing what they were driven to by the criminal Zionists and others with their agendas." "They will face a bitter defeat, God willing," he continued. "You will be able to achieve glory and your despicable infidel enemies will be defeated." Saddam urged Iraqis to rally in the cause of war. "Draw your sword and be not afraid," he said before chanting "God is great." He ended his speech saying, "Long live jihad and long live Palestine."
The Northern Alliance is concentrating its armour north of Kabul The Northern Alliance say they have captured several key towns in northern Afghanistan and are advancing towards the capital, Kabul. Their gains are said to include the northern city of Taloqan, which served as the Alliance capital until they lost it to the Taleban in September 2000. There is no independent confirmation, but the BBC Afghanistan correspondent Kate Clark says this success, if true, would cut off Taleban forces in the north-east. Northern Alliance fighters Alliance fighters say they are moving forward in the north and west The opposition forces also claim to have seized the strategic mining town of Pul-e-Khumri, north of Kabul, and the town of Qala-e-Nau in the western province of Badghis. Since their capture of Mazar-e-Sharif on Friday, the Northern Alliance say their troops have advanced 140 kilometres (90 miles) through Bamiyan and Baghlan provinces in a thrust to join up with frontline forces outside the capital. The Alliance says Taleban commanders south of Pul-e-Khumri have defected, leaving the garrison in the town of Bamiyan - the Taleban's main base in the central highlands - in a weak position. Click here for map of the battlegrounds "We have now reached the gates of Kabul from the north and our troops can launch an attack for Kabul at any time," Northern Alliance spokesman Ashraf Nadeem told Reuters news agency on Sunday. We would prefer to achieve a broad political agreement ...before moving into Kabul. But we do not commit ourselves to this if there is a political vacuum Abdullah Abdullah Northern Alliance Foreign Minister The Alliance says there was several hours of heavy fighting before they seized control of Qala-e-Nau. This leaves the way open for an assault on the important western city of Herat. There has been no statement from the Taleban on the latest claims, although they say they have staged a tactical withdrawal from three northern provinces, according to the Afghan Islamic agency. In other developments: The UK Government confirms publicly for the first time that British ground troops are operating inside Afghanistan Britain's Sunday Telegraph newspaper says Osama Bin Laden has admitted being behind the 11 September attacks in a video statement circulating among his supporters The UN refugee agency says it has begun to move Afghan refugees to a new camp set up inside Pakistan President Bush offers Pakistan an aid package worth $1bn Russia's President Putin plays down Osama Bin Laden's claims that he has nuclear and chemical weapons Traces of anthrax are found in the offices of three US senators in Washington Pakistan deports British journalist Christina Lamb US bombers again hit Taleban positions near Kabul overnight, as Taleban militia set up new checkpoints in the city, stopping cars and searching passengers. Political manoeuvres US President George W Bush has warned the Afghan opposition against trying to seize control of Kabul. "We will encourage our friends to head south... but not into the city of Kabul itself," President Bush told a news conference in New York. A Taleban soldier sits on a tank in Kabul Waiting game: A Taleban soldier in Kabul He warned that, if the opposition entered Kabul, it might endanger hopes for a future broad-based government for the country. But the Northern Alliance has indicated that it might try to take control of the capital if there were a "political vacuum". Speaking to Reuters news agency, Northern Alliance Foreign Minister Abdullah Abdullah said: "We would also prefer to achieve a broad political agreement between all groups before moving into Kabul." "But we do not commit ourselves to this if there is a political vacuum in Kabul." Pakistani leader General Pervez Musharraf echoed Mr Bush's warnings over Kabul. He said that there had been "total atrocity and killing and mayhem" in the city after Soviet troops left more than a decade ago. "If the Northern Alliance enters Kabul, we'll see the same kind of atrocities being perpetuated," he said. The loss of Mazar-e-Sharif was the first major setback for the Taleban, weakened by intense American bombing, since the US-led campaign began five weeks ago. Mazar 'calm' In Mazar-e-Sharif itself, the Northern Alliance says it has ordered all fighters to return to barracks, leaving law and order in the hands of a 300-strong security force. The Alliance says 90 Taleban fighters were killed and several hundred captured as the city was taken. Residents say Mazar-e-Sharif is calm, with some shops open and so far no sign of the bloodshed which marked previous takeovers of the city. Some women are reported to have taken advantage of the lifting of restrictions imposed by the Taleban to discard their veils, while men wanting to shave their beards have formed queues at barber shops. Northern Alliance commander General Abdul Rashid Dostum said women in Mazar-e-Sharif would now be allowed to go out to work or study.
Federal agents in four U.S. cities moved Wednesday to shut down the operations of a financial network said to be the prinicipal means by which Osama bin Laden's al Qaeda organization draws and moves money around the world. Administration sources told CNN that one man was taken into custody early Wednesday in Boston, Massachusetts. Agents were also conducting raids in Minneapolis, Minnesota; Seattle, Washington; and Columbus, Ohio. Law enforcement agencies in five other countries were also taking action against the financial network, known as al Barakaat, and a second network, known as al Taqua. Sixty-two individuals and organizations were targeted. President Bush is set to announce details of the operation Wednesday and that $43 million in assets have been been frozen worldwide in an effort to choke off support for al Qaeda. Meanwhile in Afghanistan, U.S. warplanes launched intense attacks Wednesday on Taliban targets in and around the southern Afghan city of Kandahar. (Full story) CNN's Kamal Hyder reported that huge explosions Wednesday night rocked the entire city. The attacks were concentrated on Taliban targets just west of the city. Hyder said he heard what he believed were AC-130 gunships, which are noted for their loud buzzing sound. The U.S.-led military campaign -- aimed at unseating the Taliban; dismantling al Qaeda, the terrorist group accused of the September 11 attacks on New York and the Pentagon, and bringing its leader, Osama bin Laden, to justice -- has reached its one-month mark. Tajikistan's president told reporters Wednesday that he will allow United States troops to use two of his country's military bases if needed, the Russian news agency Interfax reported.  Italy will provide 2,700 troops for the U.S.-led campaign in Afghanistan, including naval, air and ground units, the country's defense minister said Wednesday. He said the majority of the forces would be involved in logistical and defensive operations, and would be placed under the direct command of the U.S. military. (Full story)  Saying "there is a genuine sense of revulsion" among Muslims at the September 11 terrorist attacks, Britain's prime minister said Tuesday it is time to shore up relations with the Arab and Muslim world. "I think there is genuine sense of revulsion amongst the vast majority of Muslims," Tony Blair said in an interview on CNN's "Larry King Live". Blair said he plans to meet with Bush on Wednesday. (Full story)  Pakistan's foreign minister has asked the Taliban ambassador to Pakistan not to hold press conferences that malign a third country, a spokesman for the foreign minister said Wednesday. The Taliban said the request amounts to a ban, and is "suffocating the words of the Afghan people." (Full story)  Pakistan's president said Wednesday that he objects to a continuation of the allied military campaign in Afghanistan during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan. Gen. Pervez Musharraf said bombing during Ramadan, which begins November 17, could damage support for the war on terrorism in Islamic nations. (Full story)  The FBI Tuesday withdrew a warning issued last week that said terrorists might target a major bridge in a Western state. It said the information that prompted the alert was investigated and was deemed not credible. (Full story)  The FBI received unexpectedly sharp criticism during a Senate hearing Tuesday on its handling of the anthrax sent in the U.S. mail. Tim Caruso, FBI deputy assistant director for counterterrorism, said investigators had not found the source of the anthrax. "I know it's an unsatisfactory answer and unsatisfying to us as well," Caruso said. (Full story)  Pentagon officials Tuesday denied reports that a U.S. helicopter was shot down in southwestern Pakistan. Some Pakistani officials said a helicopter crashed Sunday night as it was returning to Dalbandin air base. (Full story)  The U.S. government has announced it is hiring more security employees on a temporary basis to improve oversight of screening checkpoints run by private contractors at airports. In a press release, the Federal Aviation Administration said the move would put more federal security workers on the job at airports in time for the Thanksgiving holiday. (Full story)
Pressure is increasing on Afghan faction leaders meeting in Germany to reach agreement on their country's political future by the end of Saturday. The focus has narrowed from trying to agree on a broad-based interim government to seeking a consensus on the composition of a small executive, or cabinet, to run the country for the next few months, delegates and conference sources said. UN special representative Lakhdar Brahimi Brahimi is pushing for agreement as time runs out The change of emphasis at the United Nations-sponsored talks came after progress was held up by divisions within the main group, the Northern Alliance, which controls the capital Kabul. Its leader, Burhanuddin Rabbani, backed up by some hardliners in Kabul, is blocking progress on the interim administration - apparently against the wishes of the head of the alliance's delegation at the talks, Yunus Qanooni. But the alliance's foreign minister, Abdullah Abdullah, later said that he was optimistic about a result and that the alliance was ready to transfer power to a transitional authority not headed by Mr Rabbani. Clash of generations Mr Qanooni is reported to have said he will try to strike a deal if Mr Rabbani continued to block the nomination of alliance members to the proposed interim administration. This is a very golden opportunity which must be seized Yunus Qanooni Mr Rabbani also objects to a proposed multi-national peacekeeping force. Mr Qanooni, seen as a member of a younger generation of Afghan politicians, was quoted as saying that some leaders in Kabul were "still interested in maintaining the old order". The BBC's diplomatic correspondent, Barnaby Mason, says it appears to be a clash of generations. Mr Rabbani, who is in Kabul, has complained that the alliance's delegates in Germany are being pressured into agreeing to conditions he finds unacceptable. With billions of dollars in foreign aid hanging on agreement on a transitional government by the Afghan factions, Mr Qanooni said the deal on the table in Germany was "a golden opportunity which must be seized". Yunus Qanooni Yunus Qanooni: voice of the younger generation? Mr Qanooni and other Northern Alliance delegates in Germany appear reconciled to an international force. A BBC correspondent in Kabul says the popular mood in Kabul is overwhelmingly in favour of some sort of UN peacekeeping mission as the best guarantee of stability. He says Mr Rabbani has little popular support and the sentiment in the capital is that the two things he has been objecting to - a broad-based government and international peacekeepers - are Afghanistan's only hope. Urgent call to Kabul The chairman of the talks in Germany, UN special representative for Afghanistan Lakhdar Brahimi, is reported to have telephoned Mr Rabbani on Saturday to appeal to him to reach an agreement with the other three factions represented in Germany. Mr Brahimi earlier rejected an alliance request for a 10-day adjournment of the talks. Our diplomatic correspondent says Mr Rabbani has a lot to lose from the formation of a new administration because he might not play a prominent part in it. Afghan children at refugee camp More than 7.5 million Afghans require urgent aid The UN insists that it expects the Afghan leaders to hold to any agreement reached in Germany. "We have Mr Rabbani's word that he will respect whatever comes out of the Bonn talks, UN spokesman Ahmad Fawzi said. Click here for a who's who of the Afghan power brokers. Besides the Northern Alliance, the conference brings together delegations from the former king, Zahir Shah, and two other small exile groups. The Northern Alliance objects to a proposal for the ex-king to head an interim administration.
The Taliban lost their last major stronghold Friday as Kandahar fell and opposition forces began entering the city, interim Afghan leader Hamid Karzai said. In addition, the strategically important town of Spin Boldak, on the border with Pakistan and on road to Kandahar, has fallen to local leaders from three tribal groups, CNN's Nic Robertson reported from the scene. "The Taliban authority is effectively finished," Karzai told CNN on Friday. "There is no longer a situation where we will need to push the Taliban forces out of Kandahar." The Afghan leader said Taliban fighters had been scheduled to begin turning in their weapons Friday at two locations per an agreement struck Thursday, but that instead, they began fleeing the city overnight. Karzai said opposition forces surrounding Kandahar were beginning to come into the city. (Full story) Meanwhile, U.S. Marines saw fierce action overnight, fighting a group of what were believed to be Taliban and al Qaeda forces near Kandahar. The Marines killed seven fighters. There were no Marine casualties. (Full story) Events in Kandahar were chaotic as the Taliban fled and the forces of longtime mujahedeen commander Mullah Naqibullah took control of the city's major military and administrative buildings. As the Taliban left, looters hit relief agency warehouses as well as private businesses and households. In another development, Karzai said supreme Taliban leader Mullah Mohammed Omar missed a Thursday night deadline to renounce terrorism. "He did not do that," said Karzai, who will head a new interim Afghan government. "Last night was his last chance before the transfer of power to do that. He remains to be committed to his association with terrorism." Karzai said he did not know Omar's whereabouts Friday. In Islamabad, Pakistan, on Thursday, the former Taliban ambassador, Mullah Abdul Salam Zaeef, said Omar had agreed to turn Kandahar over to Naqibullah. Zaeef said part of the negotiated settlement involved amnesty for Omar and suggested that under the surrender agreement Omar would be allowed to "live in dignity." But any consideration of amnesty for the Taliban leader was immediately rejected by U.S. officials. In Washington, U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said any deal that would allow Omar to "live in dignity" would "not be consistent" with the United States' goal of having "stopped all the senior leadership [of the Taliban] and the al Qaeda." Rumsfeld said of Omar: "He has been harboring the al Qaeda network in that country. He doesn't deserve the Medal of Freedom." Meanwhile, in eastern Afghanistan, warplanes roared overhead Friday as anti-Taliban forces of the Eastern Alliance traded blows with al Qaeda forces in the mountains near Tora Bora. The Pentagon said Thursday two Marines received "non-critical" injuries when a UH-1 "Huey" helicopter experienced a hard landing and caught fire about 12:20 a.m. local time (2:50 p.m. ET) at the Marine base southwest of Kandahar.  A mail bin at a Federal Reserve mail processing facility tested positive for anthrax Thursday, a Fed spokeswoman said. The anthrax was discovered during routine testing of mail at the facility, which is outside the main Federal Reserve Board building, said spokeswoman Michelle Smith. (Full story)  The anthrax-laden letter sent to Sen. Patrick Leahy is identical to the one sent to Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle, the FBI said Thursday. Both letters include the phrases: "You die now." "Death to America." "Allah is great." (Full story)  The United Nations Security Council unanimously endorsed the plan approved in Germany this week for a post-Taliban government in Afghanistan. But the council put off a vote authorizing a multinational peacekeeping force to provide security in and around the Afghan capital, Kabul.  U.S. officials investigated the deaths of three Army Special Forces soldiers and six members of opposition forces. They were killed Wednesday when an errant U.S. bomb exploded near them, north of Kandahar. The explosion also wounded 20 U.S. soldiers and 18 opposition fighters. The bodies of two of the U.S. soldiers killed were flown to Germany on Thursday, where they will be turned over to a military mortuary team. (Full story)  A U.S. airman Thursday became the first member of the Air Force to receive a Purple Heart for injuries received in Operation Enduring Freedom. The Special Operations Command airman -- identified only as "Staff Sgt. Michael" for security reasons -- suffered a perforated eardrum during a bombing incident involving a Taliban uprising at a fortress in Afghanistan.  Attorney General John Ashcroft lashed out Thursday at critics of the administration's response to terrorism, saying questions about whether its actions undermine the Constitution only serve to help terrorists. Ashcroft said the administration's new initiatives --including the use of military tribunals to try non-U.S. citizens suspected of terrorism -- had been "carefully drawn" to balance constitutional rights against the threat of terrorism. (Full story)  Ethnic Uzbek warlord Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostum has announced he will boycott Afghanistan's recently negotiated interim government because he said it was not fully representative. (Full story)  With the White House closed to tours for security reasons, Americans will still be able to see the elaborate holiday decorations there. White House Press Secretary Ari Fleischer announced Thursday the 360-degree online tour of the "Home for the Holidays" presentation at the White House. (Full story)  U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell told NATO ministers in Belgium Thursday that an international peacekeeping force will be sent into Afghanistan, although "the mix and the leadership" has yet to be determined. (Full story)  President Bush called on countries around the world to join the United States in paying tribute to the victims of the September 11 attacks on the three-month observance, December 11, by playing their respective country's national anthems at 8:46 a.m. ET, the exact time the first hijacked plane hit the World Trade Center.
The search for Osama bin Laden and his allies has focused on two areas of Afghanistan that are not yet under opposition control, the Pentagon said Tuesday. Gen. Tommy Franks, head of the U.S. Central Command, said his forces are focused on the Jalalabad area in eastern Afghanistan and the Kandahar area in the south, where opposition forces do not have firm control. But he would not detail exactly which leaders he thought were in those areas. "For me to say, well yes, one [area] is Osama bin Laden and the other is the leadership of the Taliban, well, I wouldn't do that because I don't think I want to tell you," Franks said. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld noted those areas were not the only places U.S.-led forces are looking. (Full story) Franks also said experts are conducting tests to determine whether al Qaeda or the Taliban had plans to manufacture weapons of mass destruction. He said 40 places in Afghanistan, most of which are now under opposition control, could have been used for chemical or biological weapons research. Meanwhile, near the Afghan city of Mazar-e Sharif, Northern Alliance fighters -- aided by U.S. and British special forces -- have nearly contained a Taliban POW uprising, according to Pentagon spokeswoman Victoria Clarke. Clarke said no U.S. military personnel were killed in the uprising, but added that a U.S. government employee is missing. She said the United States is trying to find him. (Full story) Iraqi and Arab League officials reacted negatively to President Bush's warning that if Saddam Hussein does not agree to allow international weapons inspectors "he'll find out" the consequences. Secretary of State Colin Powell said the Iraqi leader should take Bush's demand as a "very sober, chilling message." Iraq's ambassador to the United Nations called Bush's statement "unfortunate," and Arab League Secretary-General Amer Moussa said U.S. military action against Iraq would be "the end" of Arab participation in the U.S.-led anti-terrorism coalition. U.S. Attorney John Ashcroft said Tuesday a "number of individuals" believed to be members of the al Qaeda terrorist network have been detained as part of the investigation into the September 11 attacks. He said federal charges had been filed against 104 people, 55 of whom are in custody. The Immigration and Naturalization Service has another 548 in custody for immigration violations. (Full story)  Federal authorities in eastern Michigan began mailing letters Tuesday asking about 560 young men from Middle Eastern and Muslim countries to submit to "voluntary" interviews with the FBI. The FBI seeks to interview about 5,000 men between the ages of 18 and 33 who have been in the United States on non-immigrant visas since January 2000. (Full story)  In Bonn, Germany, delegates to a summit conference of Afghan groups began discussing a plan for an interim Afghan government. "Very encouraging words from the heads of the delegations this morning," said a spokesman for the top U.N. envoy for Afghanistan. (Full story)  More than 600 U.S. Marines are on the ground in Afghanistan, and the Pentagon said the full complement of 1,000 Marines would be in place Tuesday. The Marines occupied an airport about 70 miles outside the Taliban stronghold of Kandahar.  The U.S. Customs Service has given 58 airlines until Thursday to agree to submit passenger lists to federal authorities on all U.S.-bound international flights. If the airlines do not agree to turn over the information, the Customs Service told the carriers in a November 19 letter, "it will be necessary for Customs to address the security risk that such flights pose by, among other things, inspecting all hand-carried and checked baggage on every flight arriving in the United States."  The U.N. refugee agency Tuesday announced a plan to alleviate the plight of Afghans displaced by the war and the long-standing Afghan refugee problem in general. Points of the plan include promoting the return of displaced people inside Afghanistan and providing protection and aid to refugees in neighboring countries.  The United States formally requested the extradition Tuesday of an Algerian pilot U.S. officials have said was arrested in Berkshire, England, September 21 on allegations he trained four of the pilots in the September 11 attacks. At a court hearing, however, prosecutors said only that Lofti Raissi, 27, had been charged with falsifying Federal Aviation Administration documents. No charges linking him to the terror attacks have been filed. (Full story)  A Taliban commander told CNN Tuesday he had surrendered, possibly a sign the Taliban are losing their grip on the Afghan border city of Spin Boldak. The commander said he wanted to fight local tribal troops, but 25 of his soldiers refused to fight. The commander told CNN's Nic Robertson that when his soldiers refused to fight, he had no choice but to surrender.  The U.S. oil and gas industry has put itself on an increased security alert following an FBI warning that supporters of Osama bin Laden might be planning attacks, according to industry sources. (Full story)  Belgian police late Monday detained two more people in an investigation into the assassination of Ahmed Shah Massoud, the military leader of the Northern Alliance killed two days before the September 11 attacks. (Full story)  A Canadian free-lance journalist has been kidnapped and is being held for ransom by Taliban in southeast Afghanistan, according to his editor at a Montreal, Canada, newspaper. The reporter is being held in Spin Boldak, but the editor of the Montreal Mirror said his captors have not said what ransom they are seeking.  Another international journalist died Tuesday covering the war in Afghanistan, bringing to eight the total since the U.S.-led military began in October. A source for Sweden's TV4 said Tuesday cameraman Oluf Stromberg, 42, died while working in Afghanistan. No details were provided. (Full story)
US special forces are searching al-Qaeda's caves and tunnels in the Tora Bora area of eastern Afghanistan, backed by heavy air raids. Between 300 and 1,000 of Osama Bin Laden's followers are reported to be in the area, pursued by US and anti-Taleban Afghan forces, but Bin Laden's whereabouts are still a mystery. The American troops are gathering documents and other potential evidence in the caves. Tora Bora: The US believes Bin Laden may be hiding in Agam valley Pakistan: Unconfirmed reports suggest Bin Laden may have slipped over the border. See also: Where is Bin Laden? US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld plans to visit Bagram airbase near the Afghan capital, Kabul, on Sunday, a US military spokesman has confirmed. There is an unconfirmed report from Washington that Bin Laden has been heard giving orders over a short-range radio in the Tora Bora mountains over the past week. A US official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said it was confirmed "with reasonable certainty" that the voice on the radio was Bin Laden's, after it was compared with several videotapes. The US blames Bin Laden for the 11 September attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. Fighters surrounded Al-Qaeda fighters are surrounded on three sides, and the only way out is up the mountains towards Pakistan. It appears that some groups of militants are trying to take that route. A local Afghan spokesman told the BBC that 50 militants had moved out in groups of two or three on donkeys, crossing high mountain passes. US marines preparing to explode captured munitions US troops are making Kandahar airport safe The BBC's Damian Grammaticas in the area says many al-Qaeda fighters have not been dislodged from the machine-gun positions and caves. The Pakistani authorities say they have captured 31 foreigners suspected of belonging to al-Qaeda - mostly Yemenis - although the prisoners denied they came from the Tora Bora cave complex. The US defence secretary earlier said that 50 al-Qaeda fighters had surrendered. Mr Rumsfeld said that, if captured, Bin Laden would be taken to a secure location and interrogated. President George W Bush would decide whether to prosecute Bin Laden in a military tribunal. Mr Rumsfeld, currently on a tour of Central Asia, is expected to address US troops guarding Bagram airport, before flying on to Pakistan. In other developments: Plans for a possible al-Qaeda terror attack on central London have been found in Kandahar, the Portuguese paper Expresso reports An American man captured with Taleban forces at Mazar-e-Sharif has been moved out of Afghanistan to a US warship US special envoy James Dobbins is due in Kabul to reopen the US embassy as a liaison office A British-led military team is in Kabul to urge Afghanistan's new administration to accept a substantial international peacekeeping presence The foreign minister in Afghanistan's new interim government says a multinational peacekeeping contingent is acceptable as long as there are restrictions on its ability to use force Kandahar prison Space for up to 300 prisoners is being prepared at Kandahar airport, now controlled by US marines. Mindful of the earlier uprising by prisoners in Mazar-e-Sharif, US forces are working to secure the area, sweeping it for mines and booby-traps. Afghan forces have been trying to persuade Bin Laden's men to surrender. One commander, Haji Hazir, said he believed he was close to convincing up to 300 fighters to lay down their weapons. But he said the negotiations were complicated by the fact that he has demanded an unconditional surrender and the men are scattered across the mountains. The International Red Cross is concerned at the treatment of captives and is seeking access to them. Reports speak of mounting casualties among al-Qaeda's foreign militants, with one Afghan field commander telling Reuters he had seen 20 dead Chechens alone.
Al-Qaeda fighters have agreed to surrender after a relentless eight-day ground and air offensive on their rugged mountain hideouts, anti-Taleban commanders say. The top US military officer, General Richard Myers, said the Pentagon had no confirmation of the offer. But fighting has abated around the Tora Bora cave complex in eastern Afghanistan, our correspondent Peter Greste reports from the front line. There appears to be disagreement among senior al-Qaeda figures about whether to give up. Spin Ghar: al-Qaeda's 'last stronghold' Caves dug in the 1980s to resist Soviets Complex thought to be about 350m deep Hunting Bin Laden Haji Zuman, a commander of the forces ranged against Osama Bin Laden's fighters, said they had agreed to begin handing over their weapons at 0800 local time (0330 GMT) on Wednesday. Another anti-Taleban commander, Mohammad Amin, told Reuters news agency that the al-Qaeda fighters had been flushed out of much of the warren of caves and tunnels at Tora Bora where they had taken refuge. He said they had been forced to retreat to a last stronghold in the mountains south of Tora Bora, at Spin Ghar - but there was no confirmation. Some al-Qaeda fighters had started heading for the Pakistani border, but were trapped by shelling in a rocky canyon, anti-Taleban fighters said. Mystery whereabouts Pakistani authorities said they had sent reinforcements and helicopter gunships to seal the border. Anti-Taleban fighters said the Tora Bora caves were littered with the bodies of al-Qaeda fighters, their defensive positions devastated by the American air raids. Bin Laden - the chief suspect in the 11 September attacks on the United States - is said to have been leading the resistance himself. But his current whereabouts remain a mystery. US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld confirmed that American ground forces were in the area after truck-loads of US soldiers were seen. Anti-Taleban fighter examines documents found in al-Qaeda base Examining al-Qaeda papers left behind at Tora Bora Our correspondent says it is still too early to declare the battle for Tora Bora over, but it now seems likely that the end is near. Before the fighting abated, our correspondent said the mountain's lower flanks were alive with the rattle of automatic weapons fire and the thud of mortar rounds, while American bombers pounded the caves from the air. The ridges and gullies of the Tora Bora area are extraordinarily difficult to move through and al-Qaeda put up fierce resistance despite the bombing, he said. Afghan militia have been fighting for eight days to dislodge an estimated 1,000 of Bin Laden's fighters from the mountain caves. Mr Rumsfeld stressed that the war would not end with the fall of the Taleban. Comparing terrorists to wounded animals, he said they could still hide in caves or cities and then regroup to launch more attacks.
With the threat of a ground offensive looming, the final Taliban stronghold of Kandahar was the target Friday of continued heavy U.S.-led airstrikes, according to CNN sources. Despite the barrage, CNN sources heard no small arms fire in the city, indicating Kandahar was not under ground attack at this point. In another development, the Taliban said they had arrested three or four people suspected of targeting sites in Kandahar for allied bombing runs. A day earlier, Taliban sources told CNN an Afghan man suspected of aiding the United States had been hanged in Shahideen Chowk, Kandahar's main square. In an apparent move to show they are still in control of the city, the Taliban were burning music cassettes and CDs in a Kandahar sports stadium. The Taliban have a long-standing ban on music and television, but this was the first time since U.S.-led airstrikes began in early October that their rules have been enforced. In the United States, President Bush on Thursday bluntly defended the use of military tribunals to try non-U.S. citizens accused of terrorism, insisting that "we must not let foreign enemies use the forms of liberty to destroy liberty itself." "If I determine that it is in the national security interests of our great land to try by military commissions those who make war on America, then we will do so," Bush said in a speech to federal prosecutors. (Full story)  Talks aimed at forming an interim government for Afghanistan stalled Friday as delegates waited for the Northern Alliance to propose candidates for a transitional council. James Dobbins, the U.S. special representative for Afghanistan, said it was "too early to call it an impasse" but the talks "have slowed" because the Northern Alliance factions can't agree. (Full story)  Attorney General John Ashcroft suggested Friday that critics of some the administration's policies in the war on terrorism are in the minority and he accused them of "eagerly assuming the worst of their government." Speaking at an awards ceremony for law enforcement agencies, Ashcroft defended the administration's efforts as deliberate, coordinated and "carefully crafted to not only protect America, but to respect the Constitution."  The White House said Friday the timing is not right for a multinational peacekeeping force to enter Afghanistan now, and signaled that when a peacekeeping mission begins, U.S. troops are not likely to take part.  The number of refugees fleeing the Afghan border town of Spin Boldak has nearly tripled in the past few days, the United Nations high commissioner for refugees said Friday.  Afghanistan reopened the key Torkham border crossing into Pakistan, Pakistani provincial authorities told CNN Friday. The Khyber Pass crossing point was closed Wednesday after tensions mounted over Pakistan's attempts to construct a six-foot, barbed-wire fence to stop the flow of traffic. Construction of the fence will continue.  Two Australian aid workers said Friday they held no grudge against the Taliban for detaining them for three months on charges of promoting Christianity. "I feel sorry that many of the Taliban are dying," Diana Thomas told reporters in the western Australian city of Perth. "The Taliban treated us very nicely." (Full story)  The Northern Alliance says it will let rights group Amnesty International probe the deaths of several hundred captured pro-Taliban fighters who staged a revolt at a jail in the northern Afghan city of Mazar-e Sharif. (Full story)  More than 50 U.S. Army troops from the 10th Mountain Division have been deployed to an airfield near Bagram, Afghanistan, to provide security so that the airfield may be used in the future for military operations, Pentagon officials told CNN Thursday.
The United States has entered a "dangerous period" in the war against terrorism, and Americans should expect some U.S. combat deaths, President Bush said Monday. Other countries harboring terrorists could also face U.S. action, said Bush, who called on Iraq to allow independent weapons inspections. "This is a dangerous period of time," Bush said, during a Rose Garden appearance with two freed U.S. aid workers who had been held for months by the Taliban. "This is a period of time in which we're now hunting down the people responsible for bombing America." The battle against terrorism would be a "long, long struggle," and Americans "must be prepared for the loss of life," said Bush, speaking after hundreds of U.S. Marines had set up a base just south of Kandahar. "Obviously, no president or commander-in-chief hopes anybody loses life in the theater (of war), but it's going to happen," he said. "I believe the American people understand that we have got a mighty struggle on our hands and that there will be sacrifice." Other nations on notice Afghanistan, Bush said, "is just the beginning." Other nations could face U.S. reprisals, said Bush, repeating a statement he has made in the past. "If they fund a terrorist, they're a terrorist," he said. "If they house terrorists, they're terrorists. "If they develop weapons of mass destruction that will be used to terrorize nations, they will be held accountable," the president said. "And, as for Mr. Saddam Hussein (president of Iraq), he needs to let inspectors back in his country to show us that he is not developing weapons of mass destruction." Asked what the consequences would be if Hussein refused to do so, Bush replied, "He'll find out." Bush's comments on Iraq were "nothing new," said White House press secretary Ari Fleischer, who discounted suggestions that the president's statements indicated Iraq could be the next target of U.S. military action in the war on terrorism. Thanks from workers The two freed workers, Heather Mercer and Dayna Curry, offered thanks for prayers on their behalf during their Taliban custody. They also thanked Bush, and said they were proud to be Americans. "I think if we had a whole lifetime to say thank you, we wouldn't do it right, we wouldn't do it appropriately," Mercer said. Mercer, 24, and Curry, 30, arrived in Washington Sunday. They were among a group of eight international workers for the German-based group Shelter Now who were arrested by the Taliban in August and charged with trying to convert Muslims to Christianity. They were freed November 15, shortly after their Taliban captors were forced to flee the Afghan capital Kabul.
The U.S. Marine contingent in Afghanistan will be used to help hunt Taliban and al Qaeda forces on the move around Kandahar, Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said Monday. About 500 of an expected 1,000-plus Marines landed south of the Taliban stronghold of Kandahar on Sunday. They were quickly in action, with the Pentagon confirming reports Monday afternoon that U.S. helicopter gunships attacked an armored column near the airstrip they control. "They are not an occupying force," Rumsfeld said. "Their purpose is to establish a forward base of operations to help pressure the Taliban forces in Afghanistan, to prevent Taliban and al Qaeda terrorists from moving freely about the country." EXTRA INFORMATION Gallery: U.S. special forces in Afghanistan RESOURCES Special Operations Forces Rumsfeld said the base they have established could be used for humanitarian operations or for special operations troops, but won't necessarily be used to put more U.S. ground troops into Afghanistan. The Marine force includes members of the 15th Marine Expeditionary Unit of Camp Pendleton, California, aboard the Amphibious Assault Ship USS Peleliu; and the 26th Marine Expeditionary Unit of Camp Lejeune, North Carolina, aboard the USS Bataan. Both ships are stationed in the Arabian Sea, off the coast of Pakistan. Rumsfeld said the Marines went into Afghanistan at the request of Gen. Tommy Franks, the commander of U.S. forces in southwest Asia. Rumsfeld said U.S. special operations troops have been working in the area for some time, trying to intercept al Qaeda and Taliban forces on the move. Franks decided "it would be helpful to have a base there from which a variety of things can be done, rather than having people in and out of a special operations nature," Rumsfeld said. The move will put increasing pressure of the Taliban and al Qaeda, the terrorist organization U.S. officials blame for the September 11 attacks on New York and Washington. As the Marines worked to establish a base south of Kandahar, U.S. warplanes launched the most intensive raids on the city in weeks, according to reports from the ground. Heavy fighting around the city continued early Monday, but it could not be determined who was participating. The anti-Taliban Northern Alliance has said it is moving south from Herat toward Kandahar, the Taliban's political and spiritual base, while elements of Afghanistan's Pashtun tribes have threatened to move on Kandahar if Taliban leader Mohammed Omar does not relinquish control of the city. Washington has put a $25-million price on the head of al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden, and U.S. airstrikes over the weekend concentrated largely on cave and tunnel complexes in Afghanistan believed to be used by Taliban and al Qaeda troops, Myers said. After seven weeks of U.S.-led bombardment and sweeping recent advances by Northern Alliance forces, U.S. officials estimate the Taliban control less than a third of the country. But Gen. Richard Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, warned that "a substantial amount of time" remained before U.S. forces could declare victory. Myers said Kandahar is "the last bastion, we think, of Taliban resistance," but he predicted the city would not fall easily. "We think they'll dig in and fight and fight, perhaps to the end," Myers said.
Five members of a U.S. special operations force were injured -- three seriously -- when a U.S. warplane dropped a bomb near them Sunday in an attempt to control a prison uprising, the Pentagon confirmed Monday. Pentagon spokeswoman Victoria Clarke confirmed the friendly fire incident, and U.S. Joint Chiefs Chairman Gen. Richard Myers said all of the injured had been airlifted to Uzbekistan for medical treatment. "A very small number" of British troops have also sustained injuries in Afghanistan, British Defense Secretary Geoff Hoon said Monday, but he would not provide any other details. At the prison, U.S. and anti-Taliban forces continued their attempts to quell the bloody uprising by Taliban prisoners Monday, a day after hundreds were killed in the rebellion and the airstrikes that followed. Northern Alliance soldiers fight to put down a Taliban prisoner uprising on Sunday. Northern Alliance soldiers fight to put down a Taliban prisoner uprising on Sunday. The revolt began Sunday by about 300 non-Afghan Taliban inside the highly fortified compound near Mazar-e Sharif, occupied by Northern Alliance top Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostum, who was not in the compound at the time. The Taliban forces said they were surrendering, but smuggled weapons into the camp and launched a rebellion. Northern Alliance soldiers coming out of the compound Monday said they have lost between 100 and 150 fighters. As many as 400 Taliban fighters were killed, they said, the majority on Sunday after U.S. jets struck the area with precision-guided missiles. The Taliban forces who continue to fight have access to mortars and machine guns and are putting up stiff resistance from inside one building, the soldiers said. Clarke reiterated that all U.S. military are accounted for, despite Time magazine correspondent Alex Perry's report Sunday that a U.S. serviceman died in the riots. Perry said U.S. special forces told him one of their men was killed inside the compound and they were trying to extract another serviceman. Bombing raids by U.S. warplanes continued Monday, said Olivier Martin of the International Committee of the Red Cross. Martin estimated that 100 non-Afghan Taliban fighters were left inside the fortress Monday, equipped with guns and ammunition, adding that the situation inside the compound was not under control. The Taliban who revolted were mainly fighters from Pakistan linked to the al Qaeda network of Osama bin Laden. They were brought to the compound as part of a deal to surrender the city of Konduz, about five hours away. One Northern Alliance soldier leaving the area said he was more concerned about the U.S. strikes than the Taliban. As a CNN crew approached the compound around midday Monday, there was sporadic but intense fighting inside, with occasional mortar fire hitting the fields surrounding the fortress. Two mortar rounds landed near a CNN and Sky News Television team, injuring the Sky News cameraman on his left leg. Elsewhere in the city of Mazar-e Sharif, detonations could be heard as fighter jets roared overhead Monday.
King Abdullah of Jordan says US attacks on Afghanistan must continue until Washington achieves its military objectives against Osama Bin Laden and his al-Qaeda organisation. The king said that might necessitate the campaign carrying on during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, despite reservations in the Islamic world. We do have a problem. We have to deal with it King Abdullah of Jordan He was speaking in a live webcast on BBC News Online for the BBC's Talking Point programme, during a state visit to London. "I think that any human being would want confrontation or violence to cease as quickly as possible," the king said. "So we wouldn't want the operations to go more than a single second longer than it has. But having said that, we do have a problem. We have to deal with it." He also said there was no doubt that Bin Laden and al-Qaeda were responsible for the suicide plane attacks on New York and Washington on 11 September, which he described as "the most dramatic, catastrophic terrorist incident" in history. Sensitive issues Asked about the deaths of innocent Afghans in the US-led bombing campaign, he said everything was being done to reduce casualties, but he added: "Whenever there is a military objective, it has to be thought through very well. But once you think it through, it has to be carried through with unflinching resolve." There is no such thing as moderate Islam and extremist Islam. There is Islam and there are extremists King Abdullah He also said that he was "open to suggestions" about the deployment of Jordanian troops in Afghanistan, whether as peacekeepers or special forces. On the question of continuing the bombing during Ramadan, the king said religious holidays were "sensitive for people... and that increases the imperative for military commanders to bring this to a quick solution". "Out of adversity comes tremendous hope of the world coming together for the better... but definitely leading into Ramadan there are going to be a lot of reservations if the campaign is going to continue," he said. The king dismissed suggestions that there was an ideological conflict between the Muslim and non-Muslim worlds, saying Osama Bin Laden had hijacked and distorted Islam for his own ends. "There is no such thing as moderate Islam and extremist Islam. There is Islam and there are extremists," he said. Quest for Mid-East peace The king was also asked specifically about the situation in the Middle East, although he raised the issue himself in a question about the "definition of terrorism". He condemned the Palestinian suicide bomber who "goes to a pizza restaurant and blows himself up and kills innocent people", although he said it was "a bit greyer" when people, who could be freedom fighters, take on an occupying army. Later he warned that the Israeli-Palestinian problem would have to be solved or the events of 11 September would happen again. "We must say: Israelis and Palestinians you must solve your differences so that we can move on." The king of disguise One issue that seems to have caught the imagination of the public is King Abdullah's penchant for dressing up as a commoner to inspect conditions in Jordan. He spoke candidly about it to a questioner in the Netherlands: "It is easy for you to get disconnected from the people. In winter it's much easier because you can put on more clothing and more disguises. It gets a bit difficult in the summer King Abdullah "You need to be reminded of where the problems are, but a lot of people that can be around leaders like to tell them what they want to hear," he said. However, there were calls from Jordan itself which challenged recent legislation to restrict press freedom and freedom of association in the country. "The sky's the limit for freedoms," the king responded. "But there has to be some sort of responsibility and people have to meet us halfway." He also did not rule out a move away from an executive role for the monarchy in Jordan. "Monarchies have to adapt... The world will demand countries in a certain direction and we are all going to have to move with the times, definitely."
Osama Bin Laden has told the mass-circulation Dawn newspaper in Pakistan that his al-Qaeda group possesses chemical and nuclear weapons. But, while the English-language newspaper carries a clear message from Bin Laden that he has access to such weapons, he makes no such claim in an Urdu-language version of the interview. Pakistani journalist Hamid Mir, the editor of the Urdu-language newspaper Ausaf, conducted the interview with Bin Laden, who is widely held responsible for the suicide attacks on the United States two months ago. Dawn's English version quotes Bin Laden as saying: "If America used chemical and nuclear weapons against us, then we may retort with chemical and nuclear weapons. We have the weapons as a deterrent." My cause will continue after my death ...This war has been spread all over the world Osama Bin Laden Mr Mir then asks Bin Laden where he got the weapons, which the al-Qaeda leader declines to answer. But in the Urdu version of the article, Bin Laden does not threaten to use nuclear or chemical weapons. "The US is using chemical weapons against us and it has also decided to use nuclear weapons. But our war will continue," he says, according to the BBC's own translation of the Ausaf article. The two versions are otherwise very similar, says the BBC Monitoring unit. Mr Mir told the BBC he was wrapped in a blanket and taken by jeep to meet the al-Qaeda leader at a location about five hours drive from the capital, Kabul. He said Bin Laden was in high spirits and apparently healthy, but was surrounded by tight security. The Dawn newspaper said this was the first interview given by Bin Laden since the 11 September attacks. Ayman al-Zawrahi Ayman al-Zawrahi is head of the Egyptian al-Jihad Mr Mir is known to have met Osama bin Laden in the past. Bin Laden told Mr Mir al-Qaeda's mission was to spread the word of God, not to massacre people. He said: "I am ready to die. I know that they can bomb this place also. They are not aware that I am present here. But they are dropping bombs blindly everywhere. So I may get killed even with you. "But my cause will continue after my death. They think they will solve this problem by killing me. It's not easy to solve this problem. This war has been spread all over the world." Bin Laden refused to say whether or not he was behind the US attacks, describing the targets as the American icons of military and economic power. He accused the US and its allies of massacring Muslims in Palestine, Chechnya, Kashmir and Iraq and said they had the right to attack America in reprisal. He said the whole of America was responsible for what he called the atrocities perpetrated against Muslims. When asked about Pakistan's role, he said his group was disappointed by President Pervez Musharraf and the majority of Pakistan was against him. Video message Earlier, a senior member of al-Qaeda said the group remained intact despite over a month of US bombing of Afghanistan. Hamza Bin Laden's sons have also appeared on al-Jazeera Speaking in a video message to the al-Jazeera TV station, Ayman al-Zawrahi said what he called the jihad or holy war would not end until all American Jewish troops had been expelled from all Muslim states. He accused President George W Bush of lying when he said the bombing campaign had destroyed al-Qaeda and hurt the Taleban. The issue of Palestine, he said, was the crux of the conflict, and al-Qaeda would continue to fight until what he termed "every last US Jewish soldier" had left Palestine, the Arabian peninsula, and all Muslim countries.
The Northern Alliance capture of the strategically important Afghan city of Mazar-e-Sharif shows momentum is firmly with the allies attacking the Taleban, Tony Blair has said. The Prime Minister told a meeting of Labour's National Policy Forum at the party's headquarters at Millbank, Westminster, it had been a key point in the conflict. "The momentum is obviously with the international coalition, the Northern Alliance having taken Mazar-e-Sharif and now with the possibility of securing the northern part of Afghanistan," he said. But Mr Blair also warned that Osama Bin Laden would use "any weapons of mass destruction" he could. We have got to work on the other aspects, the military campaign, the political campaign and of course, what is happening on the humanitarian side Tony Blair "That is one reason why it is so important that we carry on with the action we are taking to make sure we close down that whole terrorist network in Afghanistan," he said. But Mr Blair added: "We have got to work on the other aspects, the military campaign, the political campaign and of course, what is happening on the humanitarian side to make sure that we bring this to a successful conclusion." He said the continuing air attacks were targeting Taleban troops "to make sure that the humanitarian passage is there so we can get food into people inside Afghanistan". Mr Blair also spoke of developing the diplomatic momentum and building international support for the coalition against terrorism. "All these things are coming into place - but there is still a great deal to do," he concluded. No confirmation According to Northern Alliance spokesman Ashraf Nadeem, their forces entered Mazar-e-Sharif and took over the airport earlier on Friday. He told Reuters by telephone: "Taleban forces are fleeing towards Kabul." There is no independent confirmation of the claim, but earlier the Alliance reported that the Taleban appeared to have abandoned the city. The Pentagon has said the situation is fluid but "encouraging".
Northern Alliance commanders said Monday their troops were in full control of Konduz, which had been the Taliban's last stronghold in northern Afghanistan. Gen. Daoud Khan, the anti-Taliban commander at Konduz, said Taliban forces have retreated to a town to the west. He said Konduz has been placed under the control of a security commission charged with demilitarizing the city and restoring law and order. Northern Alliance forces had begun moving into Konduz on Sunday, meeting some resistance even as thousands of Taliban fighters surrendered. By Monday, however, the Northern Alliance had entered the heart of the city and was encountering no Taliban fighters. Opposition troops were conducting house-to-house searches in Konduz late Monday, trying to ensure that no pockets of Taliban resistance remained. The Taliban defeat at Konduz ended a two-week standoff with Northern Alliance troops and wipes out the last major pocket of Taliban resistance in northern Afghanistan. U.S. officials said the Islamic militia now governs only a small portion of the country around its political and spiritual base at Kandahar. "Around Kunduz, our forces showed a lot of restraint," Northern Alliance Foreign Minister Abdullah Abdullah told CNN. "In the past few days, we gave time for negotiations. As a result of those negotiations ... we were able to avoid civilian casualties. Civilian casualties were minimum or none in Konduz. " Though they outnumbered the Taliban and had U.S. air power on their side, Northern Alliance commanders said they lacked the ammunition and supplies for a frontal assault on Konduz. Instead, they devoted more than a week to talks aimed at convincing Taliban commanders to give up or switch sides. Large numbers of Taliban troops began surrendering last week, but an unknown number of loyalists -- many of them volunteers from Pakistan, Chechnya and Arab countries -- continued to hold out. Abdullah said many Afghan Taliban who wished to surrender were killed by their non-Afghan allies. Others surrendered to Northern Alliance forces at Mazar-e Sharif, only to stage an uprising at a prison compound that had left several hundred killed or wounded by Monday afternoon. On Sunday, Gen. Atiqullah Baryalai, the Northern Alliance commander in the Konduz area, said his troops had entered the city and encountered only light resistance and small-arms fire. In addition, Baryalai said, Northern Alliance troops gained complete control of the outlying town of Kanabad on Sunday.
The United States has entered a "dangerous period" in the war against terrorism, and Americans should expect some U.S. combat deaths, President Bush said Monday. Other countries harboring terrorists could also face U.S. action, said Bush, who called on Iraq to allow independent weapons inspections. "This is a dangerous period of time," Bush said, during a Rose Garden appearance with two freed U.S. aid workers who had been held for months by the Taliban. "This is a period of time in which we're now hunting down the people responsible for bombing America." The battle against terrorism would be a "long, long struggle," and Americans "must be prepared for the loss of life," said Bush, speaking after hundreds of U.S. Marines had set up a base just south of Kandahar. "Obviously, no president or commander-in-chief hopes anybody loses life in the theater (of war), but it's going to happen," he said. "I believe the American people understand that we have got a mighty struggle on our hands and that there will be sacrifice." Other nations on notice Afghanistan, Bush said, "is just the beginning." Other nations could face U.S. reprisals, said Bush, repeating a statement he has made in the past. "If they fund a terrorist, they're a terrorist," he said. "If they house terrorists, they're terrorists. "If they develop weapons of mass destruction that will be used to terrorize nations, they will be held accountable," the president said. "And, as for Mr. Saddam Hussein (president of Iraq), he needs to let inspectors back in his country to show us that he is not developing weapons of mass destruction." Asked what the consequences would be if Hussein refused to do so, Bush replied, "He'll find out." Bush's comments on Iraq were "nothing new," said White House press secretary Ari Fleischer, who discounted suggestions that the president's statements indicated Iraq could be the next target of U.S. military action in the war on terrorism. Thanks from workers The two freed workers, Heather Mercer and Dayna Curry, offered thanks for prayers on their behalf during their Taliban custody. They also thanked Bush, and said they were proud to be Americans. "I think if we had a whole lifetime to say thank you, we wouldn't do it right, we wouldn't do it appropriately," Mercer said. Mercer, 24, and Curry, 30, arrived in Washington Sunday. They were among a group of eight international workers for the German-based group Shelter Now who were arrested by the Taliban in August and charged with trying to convert Muslims to Christianity. They were freed November 15, shortly after their Taliban captors were forced to flee the Afghan capital Kabul.
 KOENIGSWINTER, Germany -- Leaders of Afghan factions meet to discuss post-Taliban Afghanistan on Tuesday with the United Nations urging "speedy" action towards an interim government. The U.N. also wants an international security force to stop warlords' in-fighting. U.N. mediators outlined their agenda on Monday for the crucial talks between the Afghan parties this week at a hotel near Bonn, Germany. Added urgency was given to the conference by the continuing advance of anti-Taliban forces in Afghanistan. "We need to get a transitional authority in the country as soon as possible," U.N. spokesman Ahmad Fawzi said. "All parties agree it is imperative. Speed is of the essence." Representatives of three exiled Afghan factions held preliminary talks -- both with a U.N. mediator and among themselves -- on Monday before the arrival of the Northern Alliance. Its representatives were due to arrive later in the day but its foreign minister, Abdullah Abdullah, said his group was ready to share power in a broad-based administration. "It is a unique moment for Afghanistan," Abdullah said. U.N. mediator Lakhdar Brahimi has drawn up an outline plan for the talks -- expected to last two weeks -- that call for creation of a broad-based interim administration in Afghanistan. Its size, who should head it and how long it will be in place before convening a national council, known as a loya jirga, are key questions at the talks. The U.N. insists that the factions are representative enough to set the terms of the post-Taliban era. "Afghanistan is a very big, fractured country at the moment," Fawzi told a news conference near the conference venue. "We're very lucky we've got the four groups together. "It's the best we can do at this stage," he said. "It's only the first step along a very long road." Also driving the agenda are fears among regional powers of renewed civil war between the armed Afghan factions that erupted after they drove out Soviet occupiers in 1989. "There's a lot of anxiety in the country and its neighbours that events could move in that direction," said a senior U.S. official close to the talks, speaking to the Associated Press on condition of anonymity. Getting the Northern Alliance and the others to approve an international U.N. security force would be the "most viable" way to provide security in Afghanistan, Fawzi said. "I think the Afghan parties will realise that security is an important for international involvement in Afghanistan," he said, referring in part to international aid workers. The Northern Alliance, made up of Tajiks, Uzbeks and other ethnic minorities, is likely to be in a strong position at the conference. Its forces have already taken control of much of the country in a series of swift military strikes against the crumbling Taliban regime. Its 21-member delegation is to include a woman, officials said. However, many Afghans are suspicious of the alliance's motives. It monopolised power the last time it ruled Kabul, the Afghan capital, between 1992 and 1996. Others attending have been organised under the name "the Rome Group," which includes members of the so-called Peshawar Group, a Pakistani-backed assembly of exiled leaders of the Pashtuns. Koenigswinter Plans for Afghanistan's future will be mapped out at the German hotel The ethnic group, which comprises about 40 percent of Afghanistan's population, is the largest and most dominant group in the country. Also expected are members of "the Cyprus Group," whose interests are backed by Iran. The former Afghan king, Zahir Shah, will also attend. Diplomats from the U.S., Russia, the United Kingdom and neighbours such as Pakistan and Iran will be present on the sidelines of the talks, though they will not take part in the actual negotiations. "The challenge in Bonn is to develop a process where the warlords become representatives of their populations," British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said on Monday in London. He said he was not concerned that the leaders of the various Afghan factions were sending deputies, as preliminary talks were often a successful way to get negotiations going. The prize for the Afghans is the prospect of billions in foreign aid to rebuild the war-ravaged country. "Until there is a government that is broadly representative and recognised by us, there's not going to be any reconstruction assistance," the U.S. official told AP. After Tuesday's planned formal opening, the talks will break up into a shifting series of negotiating groups to try to build a consensus, diplomats said. Looking beyond the talks to the revival of Afghan society, about 50 Afghan intellectuals -- academics, journalists, traders, women's activists -- will meet on Thursday in Bonn for a four-day conference.
A train carrying vital humanitarian aid for Afghanistan crossed the border from Uzbekistan on Sunday. It is the first time the Friendship Bridge, which extends across the Amu Darya river from the border town of Termez, has opened to traffic for four years. The move follows talks in Tashkent on Saturday between US Secretary of State Colin Powell and Uzbek President Islam Karimov. Refugees in an Afghan camp Aid agencies say supplies are desperately needed in the north And as the UN World Food Programme (WFP) began a major aid operation in the capital Kabul, a spokesman from the agency said fears of an aid crisis this winter were dissipating rapidly. "With the opening of the Friendship Bridge in Uzbekistan we are able to reach more people than ever before," said Mike Huggins. "We are trying to reach six million people and we believe we are getting ever closer to that goal." Thousands of people queued for the supplies at 16 collection points across Kabul. At some points, there were chaotic scenes as people jostled and pushed forward to get a single sack of wheat. Click here for map of the border area of northern Afghanistan In another development, the Tajik Government has reopened a ferry crossing to Afghanistan across the Pyandzh river, A convoy of more than 20 trucks from Russia was reported to have crossed the river on Sunday morning and to be on its way to Kabul. Decision welcomed Uzbekistan has been under strong international pressure to reopen the Friendship Bridge as the harsh winter arrives, amid mounting concern about the welfare of Afghans displaced by fighting. The train, pulling about 15 coachloads of grain and flour provided by the WFP and the Uzbek Government, shunted across the midway line of the bridge marking the border between the two countries and came to a halt on the Afghan side. Aid at Termez on the Uzbek-Afghan border Aid is currently being transferred across the border by barge A sign in Russian on the side of the coaches read: "Aid from the Uzbek people to the fraternal people of Afghanistan". The train was met by the ethnic Uzbek Afghan warlord Abdul Rashid Dostum, who inspected the load. International aid agencies welcomed the announcement that the bridge was to be re-opened. A spokesman for the United Nations Children's Fund, Rudy Rodrigues, told the BBC he was delighted with the news, which he said would greatly speed up the delivery of aid. We are sitting here hungry, on the brink of starvation, and nobody is interested in our plight Refugee near Mazar-e-Sharif The journey by road to Mazar-e-Sharif, the site of a major Afghan refugee camp, takes just 40 minutes along this route. But without the bridge, it can take up to 10 days to deliver aid supplies to northern Afghanistan, using routes through Turkmenistan and Pakistan. The bridge was closed in 1997 after serious clashes erupted between Taleban and opposition forces, sparking fears in Tashkent that violence could spread across the border. During the current US military campaign against the Taleban regime, the Uzbek authorities have allowed the UN to ship aid by barge across the river, but agencies warned that this was insufficient to get supplies to the people who most needed them. 'Children dying' There are an estimated 150,000 refugees living in flimsy tents in a refugee camp near Mazar-e-Sharif, where snows have arrived and temperatures drop below freezing every night. Aid agencies say young children are already dying due to lack of warm clothing, and temperatures are expected to fall further in the days ahead. Mazar-e-Sharif is regarded by the aid agencies as a key distribution point for supplying northern Afghanistan and for sending aid down to the central highlands, where many Afghans will soon be blocked off by snow.
US President George W Bush has told the United Nations that every country has a duty to fight terrorism. Addressing the General Assembly for the first time, Mr Bush said no country could be neutral at a time when terror groups were reported to be seeking weapons of mass destruction. Those who supported terrorism, he said, were guilty by association and would pay a price. We should be vigilant to avoid the pitfall of fuelling rather than suppressing terrorism through unilateral practices stemming from pride and rage Iranian President Mohammad Khatami "Civilisation itself - the civilisation we share - is threatened. History will record our response and judge or justify every nation in this hall," he said. But Mr Bush was warned by a long-standing foe - Iran - and an ally - Pakistan - that its military campaign in Afghanistan may increase support for terrorism. He also urged the Northern Alliance forces, who now control the key town of Mazar-e-Sharif and are hoping to push south, not to enter Kabul. In other developments: Pakistan's President Pervez Musharraf offers talks with India on nuclear and conventional arms in an effort to reduce tension in South Asia Osama Bin Laden tells the Pakistani newspaper Dawn that he has nuclear and chemical weapons Five Algerians arrested in French city of Strasbourg on suspicion of preparing an attack on cathedral The Pakistani Government says efforts to form a broad-based government in Afghanistan must continue despite the war. President Mohammad Khatami of Iran, addressing the General Assembly shortly after Mr Bush, condemned the 11 September attacks in the United States as "inhumane" and "un-Islamic". Violence not justified But he added: "Resorting to violence and revenge to counter such acts can hardly be justified under ethical and humane considerations." Mr Khatami said a definition of terrorism should include Israeli actions against Palestinians, such as occupying Arab territory, expelling people from their homes and killing civilians. UN Secretary General Kofi Annan Mr Annan warned against forgetting other causes Mr Bush also addressed the conflict in the Middle East, reiterating the support for a Palestinian state that he first expressed in the aftermath of 11 September. Pakistan's President, Pervez Musharraf, said extremists thrived in environments where millions of people - such as the Palestinians - suffered injustice. He said a three-pronged strategy was needed, hunting individual terrorists, targetting their organisations and resolving major conflicts in a just manner. He said a solution also had to be found for the disputed territory of Kashmir - claimed by both Pakistan and India. Nuclear threats General Musharraf also offered talks with India on nuclear and conventional arms in an effort to calm tensions in South Asia which correspondents say have increased since the 11 September attacks on the United States. But he said he did not believe that Osama bin Laden's al-Qaeda network had acquired nuclear arms. Mr Bush said the Taleban's days were "drawing to a close". He promised the US would "work to build a post-Taleban government that represents all of the people" of Afghanistan after the current regime was destroyed. Strength and anger The BBC's UN correspondent Greg Barrow says Mr Bush delivered a strong speech punctuated by anger. A murderer is not a martyr - he is just a murderer George W Bush Mr Bush said that religion did not justify terrorism. "Terrorists cannot hide behind Islam. They encourage murder and suicide in the name of a religion that forbids both," he said. Annan priorities In his address to the General Assembly, UN Secretary General Kofi Annan, said there was now a temptation to focus all of the world's energy on the struggle against terrorism. But he warned that this would give victory to terrorists. Mr Annan, defined four issues on which he believed the UN should concentrate its greatest efforts. These were the eradication of poverty; the fight against Aids and other preventable diseases; resolving armed conflicts; and protecting the environment. Opening the annual debate at the UN General Assembly, Mr Annan said Africa was the continent where each of these issues faced its biggest challenge. He said the common thread linking them was the need to respect fundamental human rights. The 56th session of the UN General Assembly was to have opened in September but was postponed in the wake of the attacks in the US - the first time the opening has ever been delayed. The session has been shortened to seven days from the planned 10. Nearly 50 heads of state and government and more than 100 foreign ministers attended the opening session.
Northern Alliance President Burhanuddin Rabbani said Sunday he is looking to the United Nations to address the issue of non-Afghan Taliban soldiers captured in fighting with opposition forces. Those "foreign fighters" will be guaranteed safety and turned over to the international body, Rabbani said. "As for Arab, Pakistani and other fighters," Rabbani told reporters, "we would like to find a solution despite the fact that they were fighting against us. We have nothing to do with them. We forgive them. We would like to hand them over to the United Nations and it will be up to the United Nations whether to return them to their countries or do whatever they want to do with them." The Northern Alliance had previously said the non-Afghan fighters would be arrested and tried as war criminals. Rabbani also detailed the representation for Tuesday's summit in Bonn, Germany, on the political future of Afghanistan. Delegations will represent the Northern Alliance; the "Rome Group," which represents former Afghan King Mohammad Zahir Shah; the "Peshawar Group," for the millions of Afghan refugees in Pakistan; and the "Cyprus Group," for the large Afghan diaspora. Rabbani said he hopes to secure the formation of a 12-member executive council which will return to Afghanistan for approval by a loya jirga, a traditional grand meeting of Afghan elders. They would approve the formation of the eventual transitional government for the country.
Northern Alliance leaders Sunday claimed control of half of Konduz, the Taliban's last stronghold in northern Afghanistan, amid an uprising by Taliban prisoners who surrendered a day before. Northern Alliance officials said hundreds of Taliban prisoners who surrendered Saturday staged a violent uprising Sunday outside Mazar-e Sharif. Northern Alliance Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostum, who helped negotiate the surrender agreement last week, brought in an additional 500 Northern Alliance troops to put down the rebellion with the aid of U.S. airstrikes. A German television reporter at the fortress-like compound in Mazar-e Sharif on Sunday afternoon said some Taliban prisoners detonated hand grenades, killing themselves and several guards nearby. At that point, other Taliban fighters grabbed weapons that had been confiscated and staged a revolt. He said hundreds of prisoners may have been killed in the uprising. In Washington, U.S. Army Lt. Col. Dan Stoneking, a Pentagon spokesman, confirmed that U.S. planes did strike the prison compound Sunday. And Sgt. Maj. Rich Czizik, a spokesman for the U.S. Central Command, said no U.S. military personnel were injured in the revolt. But Czizik said he could not speak for any other branch of the U.S. government, such as the CIA or American contractors. More than 1,000 Taliban fighters -- many of them hard-core volunteers from Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Chechnya and Uzbekistan -- have given themselves up around Konduz since Friday. About 400 of those were held at Mazar-e Sharif. Saturday, another surrendering Taliban fighter at Mazar-e Sharif detonated a grenade, killing himself and two companions and seriously injuring a top Northern Alliance commander. The Taliban prisoners were part of the garrison at Konduz, the last major pocket of Taliban resistance in northern Afghanistan. Another 250 Taliban troops surrendered Sunday, departing the city in a 30-vehicle convoy along with machine guns, assault rifles and rocket launchers. Gen. Atiqullah Baryalai, the Northern Alliance commander there, said Sunday his troops have entered encountered only light resistance and small-arms fire upon entering the city. In addition, Baryalai said Northern Alliance troops were in complete control of the outlying town of Kanabad. In Konduz, most Taliban fighters were retreating to the western part of the city, he said, and fighting could still be heard as anti-Taliban troops advanced. Some who surrendered said they would switch sides to help the Northern Alliance fight for the city. Baryalai said about 3,000 hard-core, non-Afghan Taliban fighters remain in Konduz. But in Washington, U.S. military officials estimated the remaining Taliban strength at 600 to 800. At Kanabad, Northern Alliance forces said they encountered some resistance from troops belonging to Osama bin Laden's al Qaeda organization. U.S. officials blame al Qaeda for the September 11 terrorist attacks on New York and Washington. A Northern Alliance leader at Kanabad, Engineer Omar, told CNN that Juma Numangani said a bin Laden deputy died from injuries suffered in a bomb blast near Mazar-e Sharif. His death could not be independently confirmed. Numangani was a prime target of U.S. bombing near Dashtiqala two weeks ago. He established the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan, which sought to replace the country's secular government with a fundamentalist Islamic regime. Northern Alliance President Burhanuddin Rabbani said Sunday any non-Afghan Taliban fighters captured in fighting should be turned over to the United Nations and granted amnesty. The Northern Alliance had previously said the non-Afghan fighters should be arrested and tried as war criminals. "We would like to find a solution despite the fact that they were fighting against us," Rabbani said. "We have nothing to do with them. We forgive them."
Speculation is intensifying over the whereabouts of Taleban leader Mullah Mohammed Omar, after his fighters gave up control of their last major stronghold - the southern Afghan city of Kandahar. If Mullah Omar is found, he must face trial Hamid Karzai Afghan interim leader A spokesman for Gul Agha Sherzai, the former governor of Kandahar, said Mullah Omar was being held in the city under the protection of a former mujahideen commander, Mullah Naqibullah, who is sympathetic to the Taleban. US chief of staff Andrew Card declared that the Bush administration was also "pretty sure" the Taleban leader remained in the city. But Afghanistan's interim leader Hamid Karzai was less confident. "We don't know where Mullah Omar is," he told the Associated Press news agency. "We are looking for him. He is a fugitive." In other developments: Al-Qaeda fighters offer fierce resistance as American planes and anti-Taleban forces attack Osama Bin Laden's hideouts in eastern Afghanistan Uzbekistan agrees to reopen its "friendship bridge" to Afghanistan to speed up the delivery of humanitarian aid US Secretary of State Colin Powell, currently in Uzbekistan, cancels a planned visit to Kyrgyzstan because of bad weather The head of United Nations peacekeeping operations, Jean-Marie Guehenno, calls for a multinational force to be deployed in Afghanistan as soon as possible Pakistan's President Pervez Musharraf calls Mr Karzai to offer help to his fledgling Afghan administration Mr Karzai has insisted that Mullah Omar will be arrested if found. "I have given him every chance to denounce terrorism and now the time has run out," he said. "If he is found, he must face trial." US Marines man their posts in defence of Camp Rhino US military action in Afghanistan is far from over, says President Bush But Washington is still undecided as to what to do with the Taleban leader and his top commanders if they are captured, according to General Tommy Franks, chief of the US Central Command. "Do we demand to take them ourselves out of Afghanistan or could they perhaps be handled in some other way by the government within Afghanistan?" he said. "I'm not sure what policy decision will be taken on that issue." The BBC's Katty Kay in Washington says the US would prefer both Mullah Omar and Osama Bin Laden - the man suspected of masterminding the 11 September attacks on New York and Washington - to be killed by opposition forces on the ground, eliminating the political risks of putting either on trial. Power struggle US forces have meanwhile been engaged on the ground against Taleban troops trying to flee Kandahar, as well as bombing them from the air. The situation within Kandahar itself is thought to be extremely tense, with reports of clashes between rival groups seeking to cement new powerbases. Taleban leader Mullah Mohammad Omar Mullah Omar is accused of harbouring terrorists There are currently three competing areas of control. One is led by forces loyal to Mr Karzai, while Mr Sherzai controls another and a third is in the hands of another opposition leader, Mullah Naqibullah. The rival leaders have set up a shura, or city council, to bring an end to the clashes and restore some form of civic administration. BBC correspondents say that, with the Taleban's collapse all but complete, the US campaign is now focusing on the hunt for Bin Laden. But he has proved as elusive as his friend and ally Mullah Omar. Anti-Taleban forces have advanced on a major cave complex thought to be Bin Laden's main operating base, but have so far found no trace of the suspected terrorist. There is some speculation that he may have slipped into Pakistan, but the US State Department has expressed confidence that he remains inside Afghanistan.
More than 1,000 Taliban troops surrendered to Northern Alliance troops around Konduz on Saturday, moving south of the besieged city to hand over their weapons. Northern Alliance Gen. Jaffar Naderi told CNN a Taliban commander with 450 Afghan troops surrendered on Saturday near Pul-e Kumhri. "I'm try going to get these people who have surrendered to me out and move them toward Baghlan Province," Naderi said. The surrendering troops are mostly Afghans who "didn't do anything to bad to the Afghan people," he said, and "Now they are fighting for the Northern Alliance under my command." Earlier, at least 500 Taliban surrendered Saturday east of Konduz, and 400 more turned themselves in west of the city, near Mazar-e Sharif. Those who gave themselves up east of Konduz included a senior Taliban commander, Mullah Hamidullah. "I have given up my arms and surrendered to Northern Alliance," Hamidullah told CNN. He said he brought with him 250 Taliban soldiers, about 15 cars and three anti-aircraft guns. Northern Alliance officials said they had expected another top Taliban leader, Mullah Amidullah, to surrender on Sunday. A top Taliban commander negotiated the surrender Wednesday with Northern Alliance Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostum. The surrender is supposed to be complete by Sunday, but hard-core Taliban fighters and al Qaeda troops -- most from outside Afghanistan -- have vowed to keep fighting. The Northern Alliance has amassed about 30,000 troops around Konduz, the last city in the north to be held by the Taliban. Tanks and hundreds of troops drove to the front line near the city Saturday, saying they were prepared to launch an attack as soon as the signal is given. At Mazar-e Sharif, Dostum and other Northern Alliance officers coordinating the surrender were accompanied by U.S. troops, who were overlooking the situation from a distance. In Washington, a U.S. official said some of the fighters in the besieged city may be deputies and lieutenants to Osama bin Laden, the chief suspect in the September 11 terror attacks on New York and Washington. Northern Alliance commanders believe the majority of the surrendering troops near Mazar-e Sharif are from Pakistan, Chechnya and Saudi Arabia. Northern Alliance officials were interviewing the surrendering troops, trying to separate Afghan Taliban fighters from the international troops. Many of the non-Afghan Taliban fighters are loyal to bin Laden, and it has been feared that those inside Konduz would choose to fight to the death. At Mazar-e Sharif, a surrendering Taliban soldier detonated a hand grenade Saturday, killing himself and two comrades and seriously injuring a senior Northern Alliance commander. Dostum said he wants to hand non-Afghan Taliban over to the United Nations, but no U.N. representative is present in the city. The Pentagon on Saturday denied persistent reports that Pakistani planes were airlifting Pakistani fighters out of Konduz. Lt. Col. David Lapan, a Pentagon spokesman, said the United States controls the skies over Afghanistan, and "it makes no sense we'd allow aircraft in to take them out." U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld has said that Washington would oppose any surrender agreement that allows the Taliban's international volunteers to leave the country. On the east side of Konduz, about 500 Taliban troops in 20 Taliban pickup trucks, four military trucks and four tanks crossed the Bangi Bridge in Takhar Province to surrender themselves and their weapons. Northern Alliance troops warmly greeted their former Taliban foes, shaking their hands and welcoming them to their territory. Defecting troops told CNN they had surrendered under the request of their commanders and because the U.S. airstrikes on Konduz had demoralized the forces. They said they were willing to join the Northern Alliance in fighting the remaining Taliban inside Konduz.
The Taleban have handed over the last Afghan city under their control, Kandahar, but their pull-out has been accompanied by clashes between rival opposition groups. A spokesman for one of the local commanders, the former governor Gul Agha, said their forces had taken over part of the city following fighting with supporters of another commander, Mullah Naquibullah, who oversaw the Taleban's surrender. The spokesman said they did not recognise Mullah Naqibullah's authority in Kandahar. Earlier, Hamid Karzai, head of the new interim Afghan government, told the BBC the situation in the city would get better. But reports quoting eye-witnesses say there has been shooting and checkpoints have appeared on various roads in Kandahar. There is also confusion over the whereabouts of the Taleban leader, Mullah Mohammed Omar. 'Fugitive from justice' A news agency close to the Taleban, the Afghan Islamic Press (AIP), quoted a member of Kandahar's new tribal council as saying Mullah Omar had fled from the city. Mr Karzai said Mullah Omar would be arrested if found. "I have given him every chance to denounce terrorism and now the time has run out. He is an absconder, a fugitive from justice," Mr Karzai said. The objective is to take Afghanistan from rule by the barrel of the gun to rule by the people Hamid Karzai Kenton Keith, spokesman for the US-led coalition, said: "The opposition forces are closing in on him and we expect at some point, within a reasonable period, he will be in the hands of the opposition and we hope to co-operate in bringing him to justice." Mr Karzai, speaking from a desert camp near Kandahar, said the Taleban had fled in disarray. "All of last night they were fleeing the city. Just running away," he said. In other developments: Anti-Taleban forces say they have captured part of Osama Bin Laden's main base in the eastern region of Tora Bora, but found no trace of the Saudi-born militant The bodies of three US soldiers killed in friendly fire and 17 soldiers who were injured arrive at Ramstein air force base in Germany US Marines attack a Taleban convoy near Kandahar, killing seven fighters, in their first offensive ground action in southern Afghanistan Yemen said it was hunting down two Yemenis suspected by the United States of being key agents in Osama bin Laden's al-Qaeda network New Afghan Interior Minister Younis Qanooni is visiting India for talks on the interim government in Kabul and reconstruction Map of Afghanistan showing locations where Taleban are surrendering and Tora Bora cave complex Taleban forces are also surrendering in other southern Afghan towns such as Spin Boldak and Lashkargah. Haji Bashar, a member of Kandahar's new council, composed of tribal elders, clerics and opposition commanders, was quoted by AIP as saying the Taleban had completed their surrender in the city. He said they had laid down their guns and handed over power to the council. Other reports, however, spoke of chaos and widespread looting in Kandahar as Taleban fighters abandoned their spiritual capital. Gunfire was said to be heard in many areas and bands of criminals were roaming the streets - as were anti-Taleban forces and groups of foreign Taleban fighters, mainly Arabs. Mr Karzai said the safety of rank-and-file Taleban fighters who had not "associated themselves with terrorism" would be guaranteed. He denied that the United States had put him under pressure to refuse Mullah Omar amnesty. Confusion in Kandahar Mr Karzai said power in Kandahar had been transferred to the new council. "The real authority... in Kandahar from now onwards should be with the council of tribal elders and religious clergy," he said. "The objective is to take Afghanistan from rule by the barrel of the gun to rule by the people," he added. But Gul Agha strongly criticised the agreement reached with the Taleban and said Kandahar had descended into anarchy. "Karzai... has made a very, very wrong decision in Kandahar by himself. He did not consult the elders or anyone else," his spokesman, Khalid Pashtoon told Reuters. "Now the city is in chaos, there is street-by-street fighting, looting is going on. Everything has been caused by this gentleman, the new prime minister," Mr Pashtoon added. Bin Laden next target Thousands of residents have fled Kandahar after weeks of US bombing and a siege by anti-Taleban forces. Since the US-led military campaign began on 7 October, the Taleban have repeatedly claimed many civilian deaths. The French news agency AFP quoted an anonymous Taleban source in Pakistan on Friday as saying that US air raids had killed 10,000 people in Kandahar. There has been no independent verification. Anti-Taleban fighter in Tora Bora region The Tora Bora caves were taken in overnight fighting BBC correspondents say that with the Taleban's collapse all but complete, the US campaign is now focusing on the hunt for Osama Bin Laden, accused by Washington of masterminding the 11 September suicide attacks in New York and Washington. There has been speculation that he fled to a mountain fortress - a complex of caves in a part of eastern Afghanistan known as Tora Bora, occupied by hundreds of al-Qaeda fighters. Units of the Northern Alliance, helped by special forces of the US-led coalition, have attacked the caves and say they now control large parts of them. They say they have detained many people but have seen no sign of Bin Laden so far. The US-led coalition's spokesman, Kenton Keith, told the BBC that he believed Bin Laden was still in Afghanistan.
Diehard al-Qaeda fighters are ferociously resisting an onslaught by tribal forces in Osama Bin Laden's underground hideout in the rugged Tora Bora mountains of eastern Afghanistan. Attacked from the skies by American bombers and on the ground by anti-Taleban forces, the al-Qaeda fighters are holding out with barrages of rockets and mortars. The whereabouts of Bin Laden himself, however, remain a mystery. Osama was not in Tora Bora during the past days of fighting and if he had been, he has probably slipped into Pakistan Northern Alliance spokesman Intense fighting was reported as Northern Alliance troops overran part of the complex of caves and tunnels near Jalalabad where Bin Laden is believed to have set up his headquarters. But commander Hazrat Ali told the Associated Press news agency that his forces had later pulled back to let American bombs soften up the al-Qaeda positions before resuming the offensive. A Northern Alliance spokesman, Mohammed Habeel, suggested that Bin Laden, accused of masterminding the 11 September suicide attacks in the United States, may have fled to Pakistan. Mr Habeel said troops attacking the caves had not found Bin Laden himself. 'Children in the line of fire' Several hundred members of Bin Laden's al-Qaeda network were thought to have lived in the caves, some with their families. Anti-Taleban fighters said that during lulls in the fighting, they had seen Arab children playing near the entrances to caves high in the mountains. Mr Habeel said Arabs, including women, had been captured, along with weapons and vehicles. "Osama was not in Tora Bora during the past days of fighting and if he had been, he has probably slipped into Pakistan," Mr Habeel said. Some fighters, however, reported sighting a man resembling Bin Laden visiting the al-Qaeda fighters on horseback. (Click here to see map of Tora Bora caves) Many of Bin Laden's Arab fighters are reported to have moved up to high ground above the caves. From there, they could escape to other parts of Afghanistan or Pakistan. The cave complex, about 56 kilometres (35 miles) south-west of the eastern Afghan city of Jalalabad, was used by mujahideen forces fighting Soviet troops in the 1980s. The US secretly helped to build the base. Civilian casualties The complex has taken a battering from American B-52 warplanes which have been dropping 110kg and 225kg bombs. The explosions set off huge orange flashes and filled the valley with clouds of smoke and dust. Anti-Taleban fighters near Tora Bora Waiting for US bombs to soften up the enemy The French humanitarian group, Medecins sans Frontieres (MSF), said more than 80 Afghan civilians had been killed and 50 others wounded by US bombs around Tora Bora in recent days. MSF workers have recovered the bodies, the group said. The Pentagon insists that all its strikes in the Tora Bora region have successfully hit their targets. But the Pentagon is investigating how a satellite-guided American "smart" bomb missed its target and accidentally killed three American soldiers and five anti-Taleban fighters in southern Afghanistan on Wednesday.
Japan will send 1,500 troops for the Afghan relief operations which are likely to start in next few weeks, a senior Japanese official said Friday. Japan will send two transport ships, escorted by three destroyers, to the region to provide logistical support and bring in relief supplies for Afghanistan, said Daisuke Matsunaga, assistant press secretary for the Japanese foreign ministry. Also, Japan will send eight aircraft , including six transport planes, to help the U.S.-led international coalition in its campaign against terrorism in Afghanistan, he told reporters. "Japanese self defense forces will not take part in combat operations ... nor they will be deployed inside Afghanistan or Pakistan," he said. They will concentrate on relief work, logistical support and may carry out rescue operations, he added. COUNTRY PROFILE At a glance: Japan Provided by CountryWatch.com CNN.com Asia More news from our Asia edition The Japanese warships and troops will be the first Japanese military contingent to help forces in combat since the end of World War II. Matsunaga said that Japan wants mainly to contribute rehabilitation and development efforts of war-battered Afghanistan. Warships in Gulf A flotilla of three Japanese warships carrying several hundred sailors set sail for the region earlier this month, making good on the Japanese government's pledge to support U.S.-led forces in the war against terrorism. Their mission is to provide non-combat military support. This role is unlike any Japan has filled since World War II. Ten years ago Japan agreed to send minesweepers to the Persian Gulf only after the Gulf War was over.
Experts from across the world have agreed that a voice praising recent attacks on Western targets is that of al-Qaeda leader Osama Bin Laden. The listing of killings in Bali, Kuwait and Yemen and the takeover of a Moscow theatre by Chechen rebels would mean that Bin Laden was still alive last month. It does sound like Bin Laden's voice US official Detailed authentication of the tape broadcast by the Arabic television station al-Jazeera is being undertaken by US intelligence agents using specialist equipment. But officials in Washington have already said they believe it was Bin Laden who made the recording, which goes on to threaten more attacks against the US and its allies. One US official said: "It does sound like Bin Laden's voice," while another added: "It is probably him." Possible sickness Experts are believed to be scrutinising the tone of the voice on the audio tape as well as inflection patterns and word usage. George Michael, a language analyst in the US who has worked on previous Bin Laden tapes, told BBC's Today programme he would be prepared to swear in court that the statement was made by the al-Qaeda leader. Tora Bora mountains bombed, December, 2001 Bin Laden could have been hurt in the US military campaign in Afghanistan "I'm used to his voice - if it's not his voice it's an excellent imitation and I don't know how it could be done," he said. There were some differences to previous Bin Laden messages, in particular sentences were shorter and more sharply enunciated, as if the speaker was on a dialysis machine and had to catch his breath to talk, Mr Michael said. Bin Laden is said to have kidney problems and be in need of dialysis. Japanese voice expert Matsumi Suzuki agreed with Mr Michael that the voice on the tape was Bin Laden's, Kyodo news agency reported. Mr Suzuki said his analysis showed the message had been recorded in a room with a tight security system and that the speaker was hoarse, suggesting he was unwell. True to style Bin Laden's fate has been the centre of intense speculation since the US launched a bombing campaign against al-Qaeda and the Taleban Government in Afghanistan at the end of 2001 and then sent ground troops to mop up militants. Bali bomb aftermath The voice praised the bomb attack in Bali Though some have said they believe the Saudi dissident is dead, the head of Interpol, Ronald Noble, told a French newspaper last week that Bin Laden was "well and truly alive". The BBC's security affairs correspondent Frank Gardner said the audio tape carried a message true to al-Qaeda's style. Our correspondent says it is certainly characteristic of Bin Laden to praise attacks blamed on al-Qaeda without directly taking responsibility. 'Raids' reaction Al-Qaeda is held responsible for the 11 September 2001 attacks on New York and Washington as well as bombings of Western targets before and after. The voice on the tape referred to events since "the raids of New York and Washington", including the Bali bombing where nearly 200 people died, the killing of a US marine in Kuwait and the attack on a French oil tanker off the coast of Yemen. The most recent event mentioned was the Moscow theatre siege, which ended on 26 October. Do your governments not know that the White House gangsters are the biggest butchers of this age? Message to US allies The voice said these attacks were reactions "by the zealous sons of Islam in defence of their religion", citing the continued Israeli-Palestinian conflict. He warned that America's allies - specifically Britain, France, Italy, Canada, Germany and Australia - would also be targeted if they continued to support Washington. "Do your governments not know that the White House gangsters are the biggest butchers of this age?" he asked. He warned: "You will be killed just as you kill." Al-Jazeera did not say how it received the latest tape but it has played a series of messages in the past two months that it says are from the al-Qaeda leader. In September, the network played a recording of what the CIA authenticated to be Bin Laden's voice naming all 19 hijackers from the 11 September attacks. But officials said the recording might have been made months earlier.
Delegates from four Afghan factions have signed an agreement on a transitional government to run the country after 20 years of war. The eyes of the world will be on you and you carry a huge responsibility UN special envoy Lakhdar Brahimi After the signing, United Nations special envoy Lakhdar Brahimi welcomed the agreement, saying the international community would stand by Afghanistan. "The UN and the entire international community feel a tremendous sense of hope in the knowledge that agreement has been signed here in Bonn," he said. But he warned that the new government carried a "huge responsibility" and the eyes of the world would be upon it. "You must live up to your commitment to promote national reconciliation, protect human rights, encourage relations with your neighbours. You must serve your people in a democratic and transparent manner," he said. Ahmad Karzai Karzai: Currently fighting Taleban near Kandahar The UN-brokered deal came on the ninth day of gruelling talks, the final session of which went on all night, in a luxury hotel in the former West German capital. The power-sharing council is to be headed by Pashtun tribal commander Hamid Karzai and will take office on 22 December. BBC correspondents in Kabul say initial reaction amongst people there is one of real delight and relief that the talks appear to have reached a successful conclusion. Contacted by the BBC, Mr Karzai said he was glad to be entrusted with the task of leading his country. He was talking by satellite phone from north of the southern Afghan city of Kandahar, where his forces are battling the Taleban for control. He said his main priority was to restore absolute peace and security, and to bring unity to Afghanistan. "I hope that with God's help we shall take the country forward to a much better future," he said. In other developments: Two US soldiers are killed and another 20 injured in a botched US bombing raid north of Kandahar Thousands of anti-Taleban fighters prepare to attack a mountain base in eastern Afghanistan where Osama Bin Laden - accused of masterminding the 11 September attacks on the US - is believed to be hiding Anti-Taleban forces in southern Afghanistan withdraw from Kandahar airport after meeting fierce resistance Taleban leaders in the Pakistani city of Peshawar reportedly form a pressure group to urge their spiritual leader, Mullah Omar, to surrender Kandahar The UN calls on Pakistan to lift restrictions that have left 2,000 refugees stranded without food or shelter in a makeshift camp in the no-man's land between Afghanistan and Pakistan Who gets what? The Northern Alliance - which has controlled Kabul since the Taleban fled last month - will hold a total of 17 of the 30 cabinet posts, including the three most powerful ministries. UN blueprint Interim authority to rule for six months A supreme court to be set up A 21-member special independent commission to call a traditional assembly, or Loya Jirga Loya Jirga to elect transitional government A multinational force to secure Kabul Delegation head Yunus Qanooni will be interior minister, alliance commander-in-chief General Mohammad Fahim will be in charge of the Defence Ministry and Dr Abdullah Abdullah will retain the foreign affairs portfolio. Two women are among those named. One of them, Sima Samar, will be one of Mr Karzai's five vice chairs. The UN has said the new authority must guarantee freedom of expression and women's rights. King's role The text of the UN proposals has not been released, but earlier drafts included plans to set up a special commission to convene a Loya Jirga, or traditional grand assembly. Afghan girl holds baby in Kabul cemetery Afghans need the new government to succeed The former King, Zahir Shah, is expected to participate in the assembly, though it is not clear if he will open it, as some of his supporters have urged. The interim administration will rule for six months until this assembly is convened. The assembly will then elect a transitional government to rule for about two years until a constitution is drawn up and elections held. Peacekeepers The UN text also proposes a multinational peacekeeping force for Kabul, but does not stipulate the force's size, mandate or duration. The text says peacekeepers would be deployed at the Afghan administration's request. The conclusion of the talks is a big fillip for a gathering of major international aid donors taking place in Berlin. Big donor countries kept up pressure on the Afghan factions by warning them that billions of dollars in reconstruction aid depended on a deal being reached.
Despite Northern Alliance claims Thursday that the Taliban have agreed to soon surrender this northern Afghanistan city, intense fighting raged between the two sides along the front lines. After a meeting with a Taliban leader in Mazar-e Sharif, a top Northern Alliance commander said that Taliban fighters -- surrounded in this city by Northern Alliance troops -- agreed to lay down their arms Sunday. The surrender would give the Northern Alliance control of northern Afghanistan. But in Konduz, where fierce battles raged, Northern Alliance fighters expressed doubt the surrender would happen, particularly since thousands of non-Afghan Taliban fighters face trial as war criminals. And at the same time Northern Alliance commander Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostum and Gen. Mullah Faizal, the Taliban assistant defense minister in Konduz, met in Mazar-e Sharif, chaotic fighting broke out on the eastern side of Konduz province when Northern Alliance forces began a push west. Tanks, small arms, rockets and grenade rocket launchers were fired in and around villages in the Konduz area. Hundreds of Northern Alliances troops, along with tanks, raced to the front amid an intensive artillery attack on Taliban positions. In Jalalabad in eastern Afghanistan, coalition military jets were heard and four loud explosions were seen in a village to the southeast, an indication of bombing in the area. Dostum said both the Afghan fighters and the so-called "foreign" fighters in the Konduz -- mostly Arabs, Chechens, Pakistanis and Uzbeks -- will surrender. The Taliban troops will put down their weapons and give themselves up to Northern Alliance forces, said Dostum, who also said he planned to go to Konduz Saturday with 5,000 troops to oversee the surrender. Fighters who surrender will be taken to Mazar-e Sharif, Dostum said, where the Afghan fighters will be allowed to return home and the foreign fighters will be arrested and tried according the laws of the Islamic state of Afghanistan. The Northern Alliance will fight any Taliban fighters who do not surrender, Dostum said. The United States has said it does not want any of the Taliban's international volunteers or suspected terrorists to be allowed to return to their home countries. In talks Wednesday, Faizel said all the Taliban fighters in Konduz -- including the hard-line "foreign fighters" -- would no longer fight for Konduz, the last city still under Taliban control in northern Afghanistan. For more than a week, the Northern Alliance has alleged that al Qaeda fighters and the non-Afghan troops fighting with the Taliban in Konduz have been killing local Taliban fighters who want to defect or surrender to the Northern Alliance. photo Armor has been in use on both sides of the conflict The city has been the scene of heavy fighting in recent days, and many pro-Taliban fighters have pledged to fight until death there. The United States intensified its air campaign in the region in recent weeks. Dostum also said he is negotiating with other officials about other Taliban-controlled areas in Afghanistan, including the southern stronghold of Kandahar, the Taliban's religious headquarters. He did not specify what officials he is in contact with. With Taliban forces pushed into southern Afghanistan under relentless attacks from Britain and the United States in support of the Northern Alliance, Pakistan moved to sever its ties with the embattled rulers. Pakistan, until Thursday the only country that still maintained diplomatic relations with the Taliban, ordered the Afghans to close their embassy in Islamabad and vacate the country. Diplomats began leaving Thursday afternoon, telling reporters they were going home to Kandahar. Taliban leaders there declared it their religious duty Wednesday to fight for the southern city, where the fundamentalist movement began its systematic takeover of Afghanistan after the fall of the Soviet-backed communist regime in 1989. Syed Tayyad Agha, the personal secretary to Taliban leader Mullah Mohammad Omar, said the Taliban had sufficient forces to defend the area around Kandahar. A source close to the Taliban administrator in Kandahar said there is pressure from al Qaeda on local Afghan Taliban fighters to stay loyal and not surrender. The same source also said there is a flow of Taliban fighters heading south, starting to mass in and around Kandahar, a move that could embolden the hard-line, non-Afghan Taliban fighters in the city. Leaders of Pashtun tribes, however, told CNN Taliban fighters around Kandahar were talking with tribal leaders about defecting. Meanwhile, in Maidanshar, a town west of Kabul, the Northern Alliance is reporting fighting between troops under the command of a former Taliban commander and local residents. Previously, there had been talks between the commander and the Northern Alliance with the assistance of elders in the town.
The former king of Afghanistan has returned to his home country and a red carpet welcome after 29 years in exile. The Italian military aircraft carrying Mohammad Zahir Shah touched down amid tight security at Bagram airbase outside Kabul shortly before midday local time Thursday. The former king is regarded by many Afghans as a father figure for the war-ravaged nation, with his return seen as part of the healing process that will bring a sense of normalcy back to Afghanistan. Zahir Shah was accompanied on his return by Afghanistan's interim leader, Hamid Karzai, and six Afghan Cabinet ministers who traveled to Rome to escort him back to Kabul. His return has been postponed twice amid reports of a plot to assassinate him, and security within Afghanistan has been beefed up in anticipation of his arrival. A senior U.S. official said earlier this week that there were no specific threats against the monarch. However, as a precaution, a personal bodyguard corps has been trained in Kabul by Swedish peacekeepers, and security for the villa where Zahir Shah will live has been reinforced, with the streets around it blocked off. For many Afghans, the former king's return is a positive sign following years of brutal rule under the Taliban. "His presence there, I'm sure, will add to stability and peace in Afghanistan," Karzai said before the king's departure. 'Sense of unity' Afghan Foreign Minister Abdullah Abdullah said, "It is, first of all, a sign of returning to the normal situation. It is a sign of normalcy. It is also important in the sense of national unity, which is much needed nowadays in Afghanistan, perhaps more than any other time." Many Afghans have been eagerly awaiting Zahir Shah's return Many Afghans have been eagerly awaiting Zahir Shah's return The king will live in a well protected two-story house in Kabul, and a battalion of Italian paramilitary police will be in charge of his security detail for the next few months. Eventually, specially trained Afghan guards will take over the security detail. Shah, who was deposed in 1973 by his cousin, will lead a "Loya Jirga," or grand assembly, for 18 months beginning in June. During that time, the Loya Jirga will decide on the shape of the country's new government. 'Sadness' In a March CNN interview, the 87-year-old former monarch said he wants to bring peace and democracy to his country and is counting the hours until he is able to see his homeland and people again. "I go back with eagerness. I go back with happiness and joy," he said. "But also I have sadness in my heart, because on the one hand, I am very glad to see once again my people and my homeland. On the other hand, I know the changes that have taken place, the mayhem and the destruction, and that makes it sad." He said in the past he was afraid his return could cause "more bloodshed," but now the climate has changed. "I never wanted to impose myself on the Afghan people. I awaited them to give the signal that they are ready to accept me to go back, and I am ready to go back," the king said. "I want to spend the last remaining years, the few years that I have left in front of me, at the service of my people and of my country." 
