The Northern Alliance is concentrating its armour north of Kabul The Northern Alliance say they have captured several key towns in northern Afghanistan and are advancing towards the capital, Kabul. Their gains are said to include the northern city of Taloqan, which served as the Alliance capital until they lost it to the Taleban in September 2000. There is no independent confirmation, but the BBC Afghanistan correspondent Kate Clark says this success, if true, would cut off Taleban forces in the north-east. Northern Alliance fighters Alliance fighters say they are moving forward in the north and west The opposition forces also claim to have seized the strategic mining town of Pul-e-Khumri, north of Kabul, and the town of Qala-e-Nau in the western province of Badghis. Since their capture of Mazar-e-Sharif on Friday, the Northern Alliance say their troops have advanced 140 kilometres (90 miles) through Bamiyan and Baghlan provinces in a thrust to join up with frontline forces outside the capital. The Alliance says Taleban commanders south of Pul-e-Khumri have defected, leaving the garrison in the town of Bamiyan - the Taleban's main base in the central highlands - in a weak position. Click here for map of the battlegrounds "We have now reached the gates of Kabul from the north and our troops can launch an attack for Kabul at any time," Northern Alliance spokesman Ashraf Nadeem told Reuters news agency on Sunday. We would prefer to achieve a broad political agreement ...before moving into Kabul. But we do not commit ourselves to this if there is a political vacuum Abdullah Abdullah Northern Alliance Foreign Minister The Alliance says there was several hours of heavy fighting before they seized control of Qala-e-Nau. This leaves the way open for an assault on the important western city of Herat. There has been no statement from the Taleban on the latest claims, although they say they have staged a tactical withdrawal from three northern provinces, according to the Afghan Islamic agency. In other developments: The UK Government confirms publicly for the first time that British ground troops are operating inside Afghanistan Britain's Sunday Telegraph newspaper says Osama Bin Laden has admitted being behind the 11 September attacks in a video statement circulating among his supporters The UN refugee agency says it has begun to move Afghan refugees to a new camp set up inside Pakistan President Bush offers Pakistan an aid package worth $1bn Russia's President Putin plays down Osama Bin Laden's claims that he has nuclear and chemical weapons Traces of anthrax are found in the offices of three US senators in Washington Pakistan deports British journalist Christina Lamb US bombers again hit Taleban positions near Kabul overnight, as Taleban militia set up new checkpoints in the city, stopping cars and searching passengers. Political manoeuvres US President George W Bush has warned the Afghan opposition against trying to seize control of Kabul. "We will encourage our friends to head south... but not into the city of Kabul itself," President Bush told a news conference in New York. A Taleban soldier sits on a tank in Kabul Waiting game: A Taleban soldier in Kabul He warned that, if the opposition entered Kabul, it might endanger hopes for a future broad-based government for the country. But the Northern Alliance has indicated that it might try to take control of the capital if there were a "political vacuum". Speaking to Reuters news agency, Northern Alliance Foreign Minister Abdullah Abdullah said: "We would also prefer to achieve a broad political agreement between all groups before moving into Kabul." "But we do not commit ourselves to this if there is a political vacuum in Kabul." Pakistani leader General Pervez Musharraf echoed Mr Bush's warnings over Kabul. He said that there had been "total atrocity and killing and mayhem" in the city after Soviet troops left more than a decade ago. "If the Northern Alliance enters Kabul, we'll see the same kind of atrocities being perpetuated," he said. The loss of Mazar-e-Sharif was the first major setback for the Taleban, weakened by intense American bombing, since the US-led campaign began five weeks ago. Mazar 'calm' In Mazar-e-Sharif itself, the Northern Alliance says it has ordered all fighters to return to barracks, leaving law and order in the hands of a 300-strong security force. The Alliance says 90 Taleban fighters were killed and several hundred captured as the city was taken. Residents say Mazar-e-Sharif is calm, with some shops open and so far no sign of the bloodshed which marked previous takeovers of the city. Some women are reported to have taken advantage of the lifting of restrictions imposed by the Taleban to discard their veils, while men wanting to shave their beards have formed queues at barber shops. Northern Alliance commander General Abdul Rashid Dostum said women in Mazar-e-Sharif would now be allowed to go out to work or study. 
Federal agents in four U.S. cities moved Wednesday to shut down the operations of a financial network said to be the prinicipal means by which Osama bin Laden's al Qaeda organization draws and moves money around the world. Administration sources told CNN that one man was taken into custody early Wednesday in Boston, Massachusetts. Agents were also conducting raids in Minneapolis, Minnesota; Seattle, Washington; and Columbus, Ohio. Law enforcement agencies in five other countries were also taking action against the financial network, known as al Barakaat, and a second network, known as al Taqua. Sixty-two individuals and organizations were targeted. President Bush is set to announce details of the operation Wednesday and that $43 million in assets have been been frozen worldwide in an effort to choke off support for al Qaeda. Meanwhile in Afghanistan, U.S. warplanes launched intense attacks Wednesday on Taliban targets in and around the southern Afghan city of Kandahar. (Full story) CNN's Kamal Hyder reported that huge explosions Wednesday night rocked the entire city. The attacks were concentrated on Taliban targets just west of the city. Hyder said he heard what he believed were AC-130 gunships, which are noted for their loud buzzing sound. The U.S.-led military campaign -- aimed at unseating the Taliban; dismantling al Qaeda, the terrorist group accused of the September 11 attacks on New York and the Pentagon, and bringing its leader, Osama bin Laden, to justice -- has reached its one-month mark. Tajikistan's president told reporters Wednesday that he will allow United States troops to use two of his country's military bases if needed, the Russian news agency Interfax reported. • Italy will provide 2,700 troops for the U.S.-led campaign in Afghanistan, including naval, air and ground units, the country's defense minister said Wednesday. He said the majority of the forces would be involved in logistical and defensive operations, and would be placed under the direct command of the U.S. military. (Full story) • Saying "there is a genuine sense of revulsion" among Muslims at the September 11 terrorist attacks, Britain's prime minister said Tuesday it is time to shore up relations with the Arab and Muslim world. "I think there is genuine sense of revulsion amongst the vast majority of Muslims," Tony Blair said in an interview on CNN's "Larry King Live". Blair said he plans to meet with Bush on Wednesday. (Full story) • Pakistan's foreign minister has asked the Taliban ambassador to Pakistan not to hold press conferences that malign a third country, a spokesman for the foreign minister said Wednesday. The Taliban said the request amounts to a ban, and is "suffocating the words of the Afghan people." (Full story) • Pakistan's president said Wednesday that he objects to a continuation of the allied military campaign in Afghanistan during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan. Gen. Pervez Musharraf said bombing during Ramadan, which begins November 17, could damage support for the war on terrorism in Islamic nations. (Full story) • The FBI Tuesday withdrew a warning issued last week that said terrorists might target a major bridge in a Western state. It said the information that prompted the alert was investigated and was deemed not credible. (Full story) • The FBI received unexpectedly sharp criticism during a Senate hearing Tuesday on its handling of the anthrax sent in the U.S. mail. Tim Caruso, FBI deputy assistant director for counterterrorism, said investigators had not found the source of the anthrax. "I know it's an unsatisfactory answer and unsatisfying to us as well," Caruso said. (Full story) • Pentagon officials Tuesday denied reports that a U.S. helicopter was shot down in southwestern Pakistan. Some Pakistani officials said a helicopter crashed Sunday night as it was returning to Dalbandin air base. (Full story) • The U.S. government has announced it is hiring more security employees on a temporary basis to improve oversight of screening checkpoints run by private contractors at airports. In a press release, the Federal Aviation Administration said the move would put more federal security workers on the job at airports in time for the Thanksgiving holiday. (Full story) 
Pressure is increasing on Afghan faction leaders meeting in Germany to reach agreement on their country's political future by the end of Saturday. The focus has narrowed from trying to agree on a broad-based interim government to seeking a consensus on the composition of a small executive, or cabinet, to run the country for the next few months, delegates and conference sources said. UN special representative Lakhdar Brahimi Brahimi is pushing for agreement as time runs out The change of emphasis at the United Nations-sponsored talks came after progress was held up by divisions within the main group, the Northern Alliance, which controls the capital Kabul. Its leader, Burhanuddin Rabbani, backed up by some hardliners in Kabul, is blocking progress on the interim administration - apparently against the wishes of the head of the alliance's delegation at the talks, Yunus Qanooni. But the alliance's foreign minister, Abdullah Abdullah, later said that he was optimistic about a result and that the alliance was ready to transfer power to a transitional authority not headed by Mr Rabbani. Clash of generations Mr Qanooni is reported to have said he will try to strike a deal if Mr Rabbani continued to block the nomination of alliance members to the proposed interim administration. This is a very golden opportunity which must be seized Yunus Qanooni Mr Rabbani also objects to a proposed multi-national peacekeeping force. Mr Qanooni, seen as a member of a younger generation of Afghan politicians, was quoted as saying that some leaders in Kabul were "still interested in maintaining the old order". The BBC's diplomatic correspondent, Barnaby Mason, says it appears to be a clash of generations. Mr Rabbani, who is in Kabul, has complained that the alliance's delegates in Germany are being pressured into agreeing to conditions he finds unacceptable. With billions of dollars in foreign aid hanging on agreement on a transitional government by the Afghan factions, Mr Qanooni said the deal on the table in Germany was "a golden opportunity which must be seized". Yunus Qanooni Yunus Qanooni: voice of the younger generation? Mr Qanooni and other Northern Alliance delegates in Germany appear reconciled to an international force. A BBC correspondent in Kabul says the popular mood in Kabul is overwhelmingly in favour of some sort of UN peacekeeping mission as the best guarantee of stability. He says Mr Rabbani has little popular support and the sentiment in the capital is that the two things he has been objecting to - a broad-based government and international peacekeepers - are Afghanistan's only hope. Urgent call to Kabul The chairman of the talks in Germany, UN special representative for Afghanistan Lakhdar Brahimi, is reported to have telephoned Mr Rabbani on Saturday to appeal to him to reach an agreement with the other three factions represented in Germany. Mr Brahimi earlier rejected an alliance request for a 10-day adjournment of the talks. Our diplomatic correspondent says Mr Rabbani has a lot to lose from the formation of a new administration because he might not play a prominent part in it. Afghan children at refugee camp More than 7.5 million Afghans require urgent aid The UN insists that it expects the Afghan leaders to hold to any agreement reached in Germany. "We have Mr Rabbani's word that he will respect whatever comes out of the Bonn talks, UN spokesman Ahmad Fawzi said. Click here for a who's who of the Afghan power brokers. Besides the Northern Alliance, the conference brings together delegations from the former king, Zahir Shah, and two other small exile groups. The Northern Alliance objects to a proposal for the ex-king to head an interim administration. 
The Taliban lost their last major stronghold Friday as Kandahar fell and opposition forces began entering the city, interim Afghan leader Hamid Karzai said. In addition, the strategically important town of Spin Boldak, on the border with Pakistan and on road to Kandahar, has fallen to local leaders from three tribal groups, CNN's Nic Robertson reported from the scene. "The Taliban authority is effectively finished," Karzai told CNN on Friday. "There is no longer a situation where we will need to push the Taliban forces out of Kandahar." The Afghan leader said Taliban fighters had been scheduled to begin turning in their weapons Friday at two locations per an agreement struck Thursday, but that instead, they began fleeing the city overnight. Karzai said opposition forces surrounding Kandahar were beginning to come into the city. (Full story) Meanwhile, U.S. Marines saw fierce action overnight, fighting a group of what were believed to be Taliban and al Qaeda forces near Kandahar. The Marines killed seven fighters. There were no Marine casualties. (Full story) Events in Kandahar were chaotic as the Taliban fled and the forces of longtime mujahedeen commander Mullah Naqibullah took control of the city's major military and administrative buildings. As the Taliban left, looters hit relief agency warehouses as well as private businesses and households. In another development, Karzai said supreme Taliban leader Mullah Mohammed Omar missed a Thursday night deadline to renounce terrorism. "He did not do that," said Karzai, who will head a new interim Afghan government. "Last night was his last chance before the transfer of power to do that. He remains to be committed to his association with terrorism." Karzai said he did not know Omar's whereabouts Friday. In Islamabad, Pakistan, on Thursday, the former Taliban ambassador, Mullah Abdul Salam Zaeef, said Omar had agreed to turn Kandahar over to Naqibullah. Zaeef said part of the negotiated settlement involved amnesty for Omar and suggested that under the surrender agreement Omar would be allowed to "live in dignity." But any consideration of amnesty for the Taliban leader was immediately rejected by U.S. officials. In Washington, U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said any deal that would allow Omar to "live in dignity" would "not be consistent" with the United States' goal of having "stopped all the senior leadership [of the Taliban] and the al Qaeda." Rumsfeld said of Omar: "He has been harboring the al Qaeda network in that country. He doesn't deserve the Medal of Freedom." Meanwhile, in eastern Afghanistan, warplanes roared overhead Friday as anti-Taliban forces of the Eastern Alliance traded blows with al Qaeda forces in the mountains near Tora Bora. The Pentagon said Thursday two Marines received "non-critical" injuries when a UH-1 "Huey" helicopter experienced a hard landing and caught fire about 12:20 a.m. local time (2:50 p.m. ET) at the Marine base southwest of Kandahar. • A mail bin at a Federal Reserve mail processing facility tested positive for anthrax Thursday, a Fed spokeswoman said. The anthrax was discovered during routine testing of mail at the facility, which is outside the main Federal Reserve Board building, said spokeswoman Michelle Smith. (Full story) • The anthrax-laden letter sent to Sen. Patrick Leahy is identical to the one sent to Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle, the FBI said Thursday. Both letters include the phrases: "You die now." "Death to America." "Allah is great." (Full story) • The United Nations Security Council unanimously endorsed the plan approved in Germany this week for a post-Taliban government in Afghanistan. But the council put off a vote authorizing a multinational peacekeeping force to provide security in and around the Afghan capital, Kabul. • U.S. officials investigated the deaths of three Army Special Forces soldiers and six members of opposition forces. They were killed Wednesday when an errant U.S. bomb exploded near them, north of Kandahar. The explosion also wounded 20 U.S. soldiers and 18 opposition fighters. The bodies of two of the U.S. soldiers killed were flown to Germany on Thursday, where they will be turned over to a military mortuary team. (Full story) • A U.S. airman Thursday became the first member of the Air Force to receive a Purple Heart for injuries received in Operation Enduring Freedom. The Special Operations Command airman -- identified only as "Staff Sgt. Michael" for security reasons -- suffered a perforated eardrum during a bombing incident involving a Taliban uprising at a fortress in Afghanistan. • Attorney General John Ashcroft lashed out Thursday at critics of the administration's response to terrorism, saying questions about whether its actions undermine the Constitution only serve to help terrorists. Ashcroft said the administration's new initiatives --including the use of military tribunals to try non-U.S. citizens suspected of terrorism -- had been "carefully drawn" to balance constitutional rights against the threat of terrorism. (Full story) • Ethnic Uzbek warlord Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostum has announced he will boycott Afghanistan's recently negotiated interim government because he said it was not fully representative. (Full story) • With the White House closed to tours for security reasons, Americans will still be able to see the elaborate holiday decorations there. White House Press Secretary Ari Fleischer announced Thursday the 360-degree online tour of the "Home for the Holidays" presentation at the White House. (Full story) • U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell told NATO ministers in Belgium Thursday that an international peacekeeping force will be sent into Afghanistan, although "the mix and the leadership" has yet to be determined. (Full story) • President Bush called on countries around the world to join the United States in paying tribute to the victims of the September 11 attacks on the three-month observance, December 11, by playing their respective country's national anthems at 8:46 a.m. ET, the exact time the first hijacked plane hit the World Trade Center. 
The search for Osama bin Laden and his allies has focused on two areas of Afghanistan that are not yet under opposition control, the Pentagon said Tuesday. Gen. Tommy Franks, head of the U.S. Central Command, said his forces are focused on the Jalalabad area in eastern Afghanistan and the Kandahar area in the south, where opposition forces do not have firm control. But he would not detail exactly which leaders he thought were in those areas. "For me to say, well yes, one [area] is Osama bin Laden and the other is the leadership of the Taliban, well, I wouldn't do that because I don't think I want to tell you," Franks said. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld noted those areas were not the only places U.S.-led forces are looking. (Full story) Franks also said experts are conducting tests to determine whether al Qaeda or the Taliban had plans to manufacture weapons of mass destruction. He said 40 places in Afghanistan, most of which are now under opposition control, could have been used for chemical or biological weapons research. Meanwhile, near the Afghan city of Mazar-e Sharif, Northern Alliance fighters -- aided by U.S. and British special forces -- have nearly contained a Taliban POW uprising, according to Pentagon spokeswoman Victoria Clarke. Clarke said no U.S. military personnel were killed in the uprising, but added that a U.S. government employee is missing. She said the United States is trying to find him. (Full story) Iraqi and Arab League officials reacted negatively to President Bush's warning that if Saddam Hussein does not agree to allow international weapons inspectors "he'll find out" the consequences. Secretary of State Colin Powell said the Iraqi leader should take Bush's demand as a "very sober, chilling message." Iraq's ambassador to the United Nations called Bush's statement "unfortunate," and Arab League Secretary-General Amer Moussa said U.S. military action against Iraq would be "the end" of Arab participation in the U.S.-led anti-terrorism coalition. U.S. Attorney John Ashcroft said Tuesday a "number of individuals" believed to be members of the al Qaeda terrorist network have been detained as part of the investigation into the September 11 attacks. He said federal charges had been filed against 104 people, 55 of whom are in custody. The Immigration and Naturalization Service has another 548 in custody for immigration violations. (Full story) • Federal authorities in eastern Michigan began mailing letters Tuesday asking about 560 young men from Middle Eastern and Muslim countries to submit to "voluntary" interviews with the FBI. The FBI seeks to interview about 5,000 men between the ages of 18 and 33 who have been in the United States on non-immigrant visas since January 2000. (Full story) • In Bonn, Germany, delegates to a summit conference of Afghan groups began discussing a plan for an interim Afghan government. "Very encouraging words from the heads of the delegations this morning," said a spokesman for the top U.N. envoy for Afghanistan. (Full story) • More than 600 U.S. Marines are on the ground in Afghanistan, and the Pentagon said the full complement of 1,000 Marines would be in place Tuesday. The Marines occupied an airport about 70 miles outside the Taliban stronghold of Kandahar. • The U.S. Customs Service has given 58 airlines until Thursday to agree to submit passenger lists to federal authorities on all U.S.-bound international flights. If the airlines do not agree to turn over the information, the Customs Service told the carriers in a November 19 letter, "it will be necessary for Customs to address the security risk that such flights pose by, among other things, inspecting all hand-carried and checked baggage on every flight arriving in the United States." • The U.N. refugee agency Tuesday announced a plan to alleviate the plight of Afghans displaced by the war and the long-standing Afghan refugee problem in general. Points of the plan include promoting the return of displaced people inside Afghanistan and providing protection and aid to refugees in neighboring countries. • The United States formally requested the extradition Tuesday of an Algerian pilot U.S. officials have said was arrested in Berkshire, England, September 21 on allegations he trained four of the pilots in the September 11 attacks. At a court hearing, however, prosecutors said only that Lofti Raissi, 27, had been charged with falsifying Federal Aviation Administration documents. No charges linking him to the terror attacks have been filed. (Full story) • A Taliban commander told CNN Tuesday he had surrendered, possibly a sign the Taliban are losing their grip on the Afghan border city of Spin Boldak. The commander said he wanted to fight local tribal troops, but 25 of his soldiers refused to fight. The commander told CNN's Nic Robertson that when his soldiers refused to fight, he had no choice but to surrender. • The U.S. oil and gas industry has put itself on an increased security alert following an FBI warning that supporters of Osama bin Laden might be planning attacks, according to industry sources. (Full story) • Belgian police late Monday detained two more people in an investigation into the assassination of Ahmed Shah Massoud, the military leader of the Northern Alliance killed two days before the September 11 attacks. (Full story) • A Canadian free-lance journalist has been kidnapped and is being held for ransom by Taliban in southeast Afghanistan, according to his editor at a Montreal, Canada, newspaper. The reporter is being held in Spin Boldak, but the editor of the Montreal Mirror said his captors have not said what ransom they are seeking. • Another international journalist died Tuesday covering the war in Afghanistan, bringing to eight the total since the U.S.-led military began in October. A source for Sweden's TV4 said Tuesday cameraman Oluf Stromberg, 42, died while working in Afghanistan. No details were provided. (Full story) 
US special forces are searching al-Qaeda's caves and tunnels in the Tora Bora area of eastern Afghanistan, backed by heavy air raids. Between 300 and 1,000 of Osama Bin Laden's followers are reported to be in the area, pursued by US and anti-Taleban Afghan forces, but Bin Laden's whereabouts are still a mystery. The American troops are gathering documents and other potential evidence in the caves. Tora Bora: The US believes Bin Laden may be hiding in Agam valley Pakistan: Unconfirmed reports suggest Bin Laden may have slipped over the border. See also: Where is Bin Laden? US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld plans to visit Bagram airbase near the Afghan capital, Kabul, on Sunday, a US military spokesman has confirmed. There is an unconfirmed report from Washington that Bin Laden has been heard giving orders over a short-range radio in the Tora Bora mountains over the past week. A US official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said it was confirmed "with reasonable certainty" that the voice on the radio was Bin Laden's, after it was compared with several videotapes. The US blames Bin Laden for the 11 September attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. Fighters surrounded Al-Qaeda fighters are surrounded on three sides, and the only way out is up the mountains towards Pakistan. It appears that some groups of militants are trying to take that route. A local Afghan spokesman told the BBC that 50 militants had moved out in groups of two or three on donkeys, crossing high mountain passes. US marines preparing to explode captured munitions US troops are making Kandahar airport safe The BBC's Damian Grammaticas in the area says many al-Qaeda fighters have not been dislodged from the machine-gun positions and caves. The Pakistani authorities say they have captured 31 foreigners suspected of belonging to al-Qaeda - mostly Yemenis - although the prisoners denied they came from the Tora Bora cave complex. The US defence secretary earlier said that 50 al-Qaeda fighters had surrendered. Mr Rumsfeld said that, if captured, Bin Laden would be taken to a secure location and interrogated. President George W Bush would decide whether to prosecute Bin Laden in a military tribunal. Mr Rumsfeld, currently on a tour of Central Asia, is expected to address US troops guarding Bagram airport, before flying on to Pakistan. In other developments: Plans for a possible al-Qaeda terror attack on central London have been found in Kandahar, the Portuguese paper Expresso reports An American man captured with Taleban forces at Mazar-e-Sharif has been moved out of Afghanistan to a US warship US special envoy James Dobbins is due in Kabul to reopen the US embassy as a liaison office A British-led military team is in Kabul to urge Afghanistan's new administration to accept a substantial international peacekeeping presence The foreign minister in Afghanistan's new interim government says a multinational peacekeeping contingent is acceptable as long as there are restrictions on its ability to use force Kandahar prison Space for up to 300 prisoners is being prepared at Kandahar airport, now controlled by US marines. Mindful of the earlier uprising by prisoners in Mazar-e-Sharif, US forces are working to secure the area, sweeping it for mines and booby-traps. Afghan forces have been trying to persuade Bin Laden's men to surrender. One commander, Haji Hazir, said he believed he was close to convincing up to 300 fighters to lay down their weapons. But he said the negotiations were complicated by the fact that he has demanded an unconditional surrender and the men are scattered across the mountains. The International Red Cross is concerned at the treatment of captives and is seeking access to them. Reports speak of mounting casualties among al-Qaeda's foreign militants, with one Afghan field commander telling Reuters he had seen 20 dead Chechens alone. 
Al-Qaeda fighters have agreed to surrender after a relentless eight-day ground and air offensive on their rugged mountain hideouts, anti-Taleban commanders say. The top US military officer, General Richard Myers, said the Pentagon had no confirmation of the offer. But fighting has abated around the Tora Bora cave complex in eastern Afghanistan, our correspondent Peter Greste reports from the front line. There appears to be disagreement among senior al-Qaeda figures about whether to give up. Spin Ghar: al-Qaeda's 'last stronghold' Caves dug in the 1980s to resist Soviets Complex thought to be about 350m deep Hunting Bin Laden Haji Zuman, a commander of the forces ranged against Osama Bin Laden's fighters, said they had agreed to begin handing over their weapons at 0800 local time (0330 GMT) on Wednesday. Another anti-Taleban commander, Mohammad Amin, told Reuters news agency that the al-Qaeda fighters had been flushed out of much of the warren of caves and tunnels at Tora Bora where they had taken refuge. He said they had been forced to retreat to a last stronghold in the mountains south of Tora Bora, at Spin Ghar - but there was no confirmation. Some al-Qaeda fighters had started heading for the Pakistani border, but were trapped by shelling in a rocky canyon, anti-Taleban fighters said. Mystery whereabouts Pakistani authorities said they had sent reinforcements and helicopter gunships to seal the border. Anti-Taleban fighters said the Tora Bora caves were littered with the bodies of al-Qaeda fighters, their defensive positions devastated by the American air raids. Bin Laden - the chief suspect in the 11 September attacks on the United States - is said to have been leading the resistance himself. But his current whereabouts remain a mystery. US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld confirmed that American ground forces were in the area after truck-loads of US soldiers were seen. Anti-Taleban fighter examines documents found in al-Qaeda base Examining al-Qaeda papers left behind at Tora Bora Our correspondent says it is still too early to declare the battle for Tora Bora over, but it now seems likely that the end is near. Before the fighting abated, our correspondent said the mountain's lower flanks were alive with the rattle of automatic weapons fire and the thud of mortar rounds, while American bombers pounded the caves from the air. The ridges and gullies of the Tora Bora area are extraordinarily difficult to move through and al-Qaeda put up fierce resistance despite the bombing, he said. Afghan militia have been fighting for eight days to dislodge an estimated 1,000 of Bin Laden's fighters from the mountain caves. Mr Rumsfeld stressed that the war would not end with the fall of the Taleban. Comparing terrorists to wounded animals, he said they could still hide in caves or cities and then regroup to launch more attacks. 
With the threat of a ground offensive looming, the final Taliban stronghold of Kandahar was the target Friday of continued heavy U.S.-led airstrikes, according to CNN sources. Despite the barrage, CNN sources heard no small arms fire in the city, indicating Kandahar was not under ground attack at this point. In another development, the Taliban said they had arrested three or four people suspected of targeting sites in Kandahar for allied bombing runs. A day earlier, Taliban sources told CNN an Afghan man suspected of aiding the United States had been hanged in Shahideen Chowk, Kandahar's main square. In an apparent move to show they are still in control of the city, the Taliban were burning music cassettes and CDs in a Kandahar sports stadium. The Taliban have a long-standing ban on music and television, but this was the first time since U.S.-led airstrikes began in early October that their rules have been enforced. In the United States, President Bush on Thursday bluntly defended the use of military tribunals to try non-U.S. citizens accused of terrorism, insisting that "we must not let foreign enemies use the forms of liberty to destroy liberty itself." "If I determine that it is in the national security interests of our great land to try by military commissions those who make war on America, then we will do so," Bush said in a speech to federal prosecutors. (Full story) • Talks aimed at forming an interim government for Afghanistan stalled Friday as delegates waited for the Northern Alliance to propose candidates for a transitional council. James Dobbins, the U.S. special representative for Afghanistan, said it was "too early to call it an impasse" but the talks "have slowed" because the Northern Alliance factions can't agree. (Full story) • Attorney General John Ashcroft suggested Friday that critics of some the administration's policies in the war on terrorism are in the minority and he accused them of "eagerly assuming the worst of their government." Speaking at an awards ceremony for law enforcement agencies, Ashcroft defended the administration's efforts as deliberate, coordinated and "carefully crafted to not only protect America, but to respect the Constitution." • The White House said Friday the timing is not right for a multinational peacekeeping force to enter Afghanistan now, and signaled that when a peacekeeping mission begins, U.S. troops are not likely to take part. • The number of refugees fleeing the Afghan border town of Spin Boldak has nearly tripled in the past few days, the United Nations high commissioner for refugees said Friday. • Afghanistan reopened the key Torkham border crossing into Pakistan, Pakistani provincial authorities told CNN Friday. The Khyber Pass crossing point was closed Wednesday after tensions mounted over Pakistan's attempts to construct a six-foot, barbed-wire fence to stop the flow of traffic. Construction of the fence will continue. • Two Australian aid workers said Friday they held no grudge against the Taliban for detaining them for three months on charges of promoting Christianity. "I feel sorry that many of the Taliban are dying," Diana Thomas told reporters in the western Australian city of Perth. "The Taliban treated us very nicely." (Full story) • The Northern Alliance says it will let rights group Amnesty International probe the deaths of several hundred captured pro-Taliban fighters who staged a revolt at a jail in the northern Afghan city of Mazar-e Sharif. (Full story) • More than 50 U.S. Army troops from the 10th Mountain Division have been deployed to an airfield near Bagram, Afghanistan, to provide security so that the airfield may be used in the future for military operations, Pentagon officials told CNN Thursday. 
The United States has entered a "dangerous period" in the war against terrorism, and Americans should expect some U.S. combat deaths, President Bush said Monday. Other countries harboring terrorists could also face U.S. action, said Bush, who called on Iraq to allow independent weapons inspections. "This is a dangerous period of time," Bush said, during a Rose Garden appearance with two freed U.S. aid workers who had been held for months by the Taliban. "This is a period of time in which we're now hunting down the people responsible for bombing America." The battle against terrorism would be a "long, long struggle," and Americans "must be prepared for the loss of life," said Bush, speaking after hundreds of U.S. Marines had set up a base just south of Kandahar. "Obviously, no president or commander-in-chief hopes anybody loses life in the theater (of war), but it's going to happen," he said. "I believe the American people understand that we have got a mighty struggle on our hands and that there will be sacrifice." Other nations on notice Afghanistan, Bush said, "is just the beginning." Other nations could face U.S. reprisals, said Bush, repeating a statement he has made in the past. "If they fund a terrorist, they're a terrorist," he said. "If they house terrorists, they're terrorists. "If they develop weapons of mass destruction that will be used to terrorize nations, they will be held accountable," the president said. "And, as for Mr. Saddam Hussein (president of Iraq), he needs to let inspectors back in his country to show us that he is not developing weapons of mass destruction." Asked what the consequences would be if Hussein refused to do so, Bush replied, "He'll find out." Bush's comments on Iraq were "nothing new," said White House press secretary Ari Fleischer, who discounted suggestions that the president's statements indicated Iraq could be the next target of U.S. military action in the war on terrorism. Thanks from workers The two freed workers, Heather Mercer and Dayna Curry, offered thanks for prayers on their behalf during their Taliban custody. They also thanked Bush, and said they were proud to be Americans. "I think if we had a whole lifetime to say thank you, we wouldn't do it right, we wouldn't do it appropriately," Mercer said. Mercer, 24, and Curry, 30, arrived in Washington Sunday. They were among a group of eight international workers for the German-based group Shelter Now who were arrested by the Taliban in August and charged with trying to convert Muslims to Christianity. They were freed November 15, shortly after their Taliban captors were forced to flee the Afghan capital Kabul. 
The U.S. Marine contingent in Afghanistan will be used to help hunt Taliban and al Qaeda forces on the move around Kandahar, Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said Monday. About 500 of an expected 1,000-plus Marines landed south of the Taliban stronghold of Kandahar on Sunday. They were quickly in action, with the Pentagon confirming reports Monday afternoon that U.S. helicopter gunships attacked an armored column near the airstrip they control. "They are not an occupying force," Rumsfeld said. "Their purpose is to establish a forward base of operations to help pressure the Taliban forces in Afghanistan, to prevent Taliban and al Qaeda terrorists from moving freely about the country." EXTRA INFORMATION Gallery: U.S. special forces in Afghanistan RESOURCES Special Operations Forces Rumsfeld said the base they have established could be used for humanitarian operations or for special operations troops, but won't necessarily be used to put more U.S. ground troops into Afghanistan. The Marine force includes members of the 15th Marine Expeditionary Unit of Camp Pendleton, California, aboard the Amphibious Assault Ship USS Peleliu; and the 26th Marine Expeditionary Unit of Camp Lejeune, North Carolina, aboard the USS Bataan. Both ships are stationed in the Arabian Sea, off the coast of Pakistan. Rumsfeld said the Marines went into Afghanistan at the request of Gen. Tommy Franks, the commander of U.S. forces in southwest Asia. Rumsfeld said U.S. special operations troops have been working in the area for some time, trying to intercept al Qaeda and Taliban forces on the move. Franks decided "it would be helpful to have a base there from which a variety of things can be done, rather than having people in and out of a special operations nature," Rumsfeld said. The move will put increasing pressure of the Taliban and al Qaeda, the terrorist organization U.S. officials blame for the September 11 attacks on New York and Washington. As the Marines worked to establish a base south of Kandahar, U.S. warplanes launched the most intensive raids on the city in weeks, according to reports from the ground. Heavy fighting around the city continued early Monday, but it could not be determined who was participating. The anti-Taliban Northern Alliance has said it is moving south from Herat toward Kandahar, the Taliban's political and spiritual base, while elements of Afghanistan's Pashtun tribes have threatened to move on Kandahar if Taliban leader Mohammed Omar does not relinquish control of the city. Washington has put a $25-million price on the head of al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden, and U.S. airstrikes over the weekend concentrated largely on cave and tunnel complexes in Afghanistan believed to be used by Taliban and al Qaeda troops, Myers said. After seven weeks of U.S.-led bombardment and sweeping recent advances by Northern Alliance forces, U.S. officials estimate the Taliban control less than a third of the country. But Gen. Richard Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, warned that "a substantial amount of time" remained before U.S. forces could declare victory. Myers said Kandahar is "the last bastion, we think, of Taliban resistance," but he predicted the city would not fall easily. "We think they'll dig in and fight and fight, perhaps to the end," Myers said. 
Five members of a U.S. special operations force were injured -- three seriously -- when a U.S. warplane dropped a bomb near them Sunday in an attempt to control a prison uprising, the Pentagon confirmed Monday. Pentagon spokeswoman Victoria Clarke confirmed the friendly fire incident, and U.S. Joint Chiefs Chairman Gen. Richard Myers said all of the injured had been airlifted to Uzbekistan for medical treatment. "A very small number" of British troops have also sustained injuries in Afghanistan, British Defense Secretary Geoff Hoon said Monday, but he would not provide any other details. At the prison, U.S. and anti-Taliban forces continued their attempts to quell the bloody uprising by Taliban prisoners Monday, a day after hundreds were killed in the rebellion and the airstrikes that followed. Northern Alliance soldiers fight to put down a Taliban prisoner uprising on Sunday. Northern Alliance soldiers fight to put down a Taliban prisoner uprising on Sunday. The revolt began Sunday by about 300 non-Afghan Taliban inside the highly fortified compound near Mazar-e Sharif, occupied by Northern Alliance top Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostum, who was not in the compound at the time. The Taliban forces said they were surrendering, but smuggled weapons into the camp and launched a rebellion. Northern Alliance soldiers coming out of the compound Monday said they have lost between 100 and 150 fighters. As many as 400 Taliban fighters were killed, they said, the majority on Sunday after U.S. jets struck the area with precision-guided missiles. The Taliban forces who continue to fight have access to mortars and machine guns and are putting up stiff resistance from inside one building, the soldiers said. Clarke reiterated that all U.S. military are accounted for, despite Time magazine correspondent Alex Perry's report Sunday that a U.S. serviceman died in the riots. Perry said U.S. special forces told him one of their men was killed inside the compound and they were trying to extract another serviceman. Bombing raids by U.S. warplanes continued Monday, said Olivier Martin of the International Committee of the Red Cross. Martin estimated that 100 non-Afghan Taliban fighters were left inside the fortress Monday, equipped with guns and ammunition, adding that the situation inside the compound was not under control. The Taliban who revolted were mainly fighters from Pakistan linked to the al Qaeda network of Osama bin Laden. They were brought to the compound as part of a deal to surrender the city of Konduz, about five hours away. One Northern Alliance soldier leaving the area said he was more concerned about the U.S. strikes than the Taliban. As a CNN crew approached the compound around midday Monday, there was sporadic but intense fighting inside, with occasional mortar fire hitting the fields surrounding the fortress. Two mortar rounds landed near a CNN and Sky News Television team, injuring the Sky News cameraman on his left leg. Elsewhere in the city of Mazar-e Sharif, detonations could be heard as fighter jets roared overhead Monday. 
King Abdullah of Jordan says US attacks on Afghanistan must continue until Washington achieves its military objectives against Osama Bin Laden and his al-Qaeda organisation. The king said that might necessitate the campaign carrying on during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, despite reservations in the Islamic world. We do have a problem. We have to deal with it King Abdullah of Jordan He was speaking in a live webcast on BBC News Online for the BBC's Talking Point programme, during a state visit to London. "I think that any human being would want confrontation or violence to cease as quickly as possible," the king said. "So we wouldn't want the operations to go more than a single second longer than it has. But having said that, we do have a problem. We have to deal with it." He also said there was no doubt that Bin Laden and al-Qaeda were responsible for the suicide plane attacks on New York and Washington on 11 September, which he described as "the most dramatic, catastrophic terrorist incident" in history. Sensitive issues Asked about the deaths of innocent Afghans in the US-led bombing campaign, he said everything was being done to reduce casualties, but he added: "Whenever there is a military objective, it has to be thought through very well. But once you think it through, it has to be carried through with unflinching resolve." There is no such thing as moderate Islam and extremist Islam. There is Islam and there are extremists King Abdullah He also said that he was "open to suggestions" about the deployment of Jordanian troops in Afghanistan, whether as peacekeepers or special forces. On the question of continuing the bombing during Ramadan, the king said religious holidays were "sensitive for people... and that increases the imperative for military commanders to bring this to a quick solution". "Out of adversity comes tremendous hope of the world coming together for the better... but definitely leading into Ramadan there are going to be a lot of reservations if the campaign is going to continue," he said. The king dismissed suggestions that there was an ideological conflict between the Muslim and non-Muslim worlds, saying Osama Bin Laden had hijacked and distorted Islam for his own ends. "There is no such thing as moderate Islam and extremist Islam. There is Islam and there are extremists," he said. Quest for Mid-East peace The king was also asked specifically about the situation in the Middle East, although he raised the issue himself in a question about the "definition of terrorism". He condemned the Palestinian suicide bomber who "goes to a pizza restaurant and blows himself up and kills innocent people", although he said it was "a bit greyer" when people, who could be freedom fighters, take on an occupying army. Later he warned that the Israeli-Palestinian problem would have to be solved or the events of 11 September would happen again. "We must say: Israelis and Palestinians you must solve your differences so that we can move on." The king of disguise One issue that seems to have caught the imagination of the public is King Abdullah's penchant for dressing up as a commoner to inspect conditions in Jordan. He spoke candidly about it to a questioner in the Netherlands: "It is easy for you to get disconnected from the people. In winter it's much easier because you can put on more clothing and more disguises. It gets a bit difficult in the summer King Abdullah "You need to be reminded of where the problems are, but a lot of people that can be around leaders like to tell them what they want to hear," he said. However, there were calls from Jordan itself which challenged recent legislation to restrict press freedom and freedom of association in the country. "The sky's the limit for freedoms," the king responded. "But there has to be some sort of responsibility and people have to meet us halfway." He also did not rule out a move away from an executive role for the monarchy in Jordan. "Monarchies have to adapt... The world will demand countries in a certain direction and we are all going to have to move with the times, definitely." 
Osama Bin Laden has told the mass-circulation Dawn newspaper in Pakistan that his al-Qaeda group possesses chemical and nuclear weapons. But, while the English-language newspaper carries a clear message from Bin Laden that he has access to such weapons, he makes no such claim in an Urdu-language version of the interview. Pakistani journalist Hamid Mir, the editor of the Urdu-language newspaper Ausaf, conducted the interview with Bin Laden, who is widely held responsible for the suicide attacks on the United States two months ago. Dawn's English version quotes Bin Laden as saying: "If America used chemical and nuclear weapons against us, then we may retort with chemical and nuclear weapons. We have the weapons as a deterrent." My cause will continue after my death ...This war has been spread all over the world Osama Bin Laden Mr Mir then asks Bin Laden where he got the weapons, which the al-Qaeda leader declines to answer. But in the Urdu version of the article, Bin Laden does not threaten to use nuclear or chemical weapons. "The US is using chemical weapons against us and it has also decided to use nuclear weapons. But our war will continue," he says, according to the BBC's own translation of the Ausaf article. The two versions are otherwise very similar, says the BBC Monitoring unit. Mr Mir told the BBC he was wrapped in a blanket and taken by jeep to meet the al-Qaeda leader at a location about five hours drive from the capital, Kabul. He said Bin Laden was in high spirits and apparently healthy, but was surrounded by tight security. The Dawn newspaper said this was the first interview given by Bin Laden since the 11 September attacks. Ayman al-Zawrahi Ayman al-Zawrahi is head of the Egyptian al-Jihad Mr Mir is known to have met Osama bin Laden in the past. Bin Laden told Mr Mir al-Qaeda's mission was to spread the word of God, not to massacre people. He said: "I am ready to die. I know that they can bomb this place also. They are not aware that I am present here. But they are dropping bombs blindly everywhere. So I may get killed even with you. "But my cause will continue after my death. They think they will solve this problem by killing me. It's not easy to solve this problem. This war has been spread all over the world." Bin Laden refused to say whether or not he was behind the US attacks, describing the targets as the American icons of military and economic power. He accused the US and its allies of massacring Muslims in Palestine, Chechnya, Kashmir and Iraq and said they had the right to attack America in reprisal. He said the whole of America was responsible for what he called the atrocities perpetrated against Muslims. When asked about Pakistan's role, he said his group was disappointed by President Pervez Musharraf and the majority of Pakistan was against him. Video message Earlier, a senior member of al-Qaeda said the group remained intact despite over a month of US bombing of Afghanistan. Hamza Bin Laden's sons have also appeared on al-Jazeera Speaking in a video message to the al-Jazeera TV station, Ayman al-Zawrahi said what he called the jihad or holy war would not end until all American Jewish troops had been expelled from all Muslim states. He accused President George W Bush of lying when he said the bombing campaign had destroyed al-Qaeda and hurt the Taleban. The issue of Palestine, he said, was the crux of the conflict, and al-Qaeda would continue to fight until what he termed "every last US Jewish soldier" had left Palestine, the Arabian peninsula, and all Muslim countries. 
The Northern Alliance capture of the strategically important Afghan city of Mazar-e-Sharif shows momentum is firmly with the allies attacking the Taleban, Tony Blair has said. The Prime Minister told a meeting of Labour's National Policy Forum at the party's headquarters at Millbank, Westminster, it had been a key point in the conflict. "The momentum is obviously with the international coalition, the Northern Alliance having taken Mazar-e-Sharif and now with the possibility of securing the northern part of Afghanistan," he said. But Mr Blair also warned that Osama Bin Laden would use "any weapons of mass destruction" he could. We have got to work on the other aspects, the military campaign, the political campaign and of course, what is happening on the humanitarian side Tony Blair "That is one reason why it is so important that we carry on with the action we are taking to make sure we close down that whole terrorist network in Afghanistan," he said. But Mr Blair added: "We have got to work on the other aspects, the military campaign, the political campaign and of course, what is happening on the humanitarian side to make sure that we bring this to a successful conclusion." He said the continuing air attacks were targeting Taleban troops "to make sure that the humanitarian passage is there so we can get food into people inside Afghanistan". Mr Blair also spoke of developing the diplomatic momentum and building international support for the coalition against terrorism. "All these things are coming into place - but there is still a great deal to do," he concluded. No confirmation According to Northern Alliance spokesman Ashraf Nadeem, their forces entered Mazar-e-Sharif and took over the airport earlier on Friday. He told Reuters by telephone: "Taleban forces are fleeing towards Kabul." There is no independent confirmation of the claim, but earlier the Alliance reported that the Taleban appeared to have abandoned the city. The Pentagon has said the situation is fluid but "encouraging". 
Northern Alliance commanders said Monday their troops were in full control of Konduz, which had been the Taliban's last stronghold in northern Afghanistan. Gen. Daoud Khan, the anti-Taliban commander at Konduz, said Taliban forces have retreated to a town to the west. He said Konduz has been placed under the control of a security commission charged with demilitarizing the city and restoring law and order. Northern Alliance forces had begun moving into Konduz on Sunday, meeting some resistance even as thousands of Taliban fighters surrendered. By Monday, however, the Northern Alliance had entered the heart of the city and was encountering no Taliban fighters. Opposition troops were conducting house-to-house searches in Konduz late Monday, trying to ensure that no pockets of Taliban resistance remained. The Taliban defeat at Konduz ended a two-week standoff with Northern Alliance troops and wipes out the last major pocket of Taliban resistance in northern Afghanistan. U.S. officials said the Islamic militia now governs only a small portion of the country around its political and spiritual base at Kandahar. "Around Kunduz, our forces showed a lot of restraint," Northern Alliance Foreign Minister Abdullah Abdullah told CNN. "In the past few days, we gave time for negotiations. As a result of those negotiations ... we were able to avoid civilian casualties. Civilian casualties were minimum or none in Konduz. " Though they outnumbered the Taliban and had U.S. air power on their side, Northern Alliance commanders said they lacked the ammunition and supplies for a frontal assault on Konduz. Instead, they devoted more than a week to talks aimed at convincing Taliban commanders to give up or switch sides. Large numbers of Taliban troops began surrendering last week, but an unknown number of loyalists -- many of them volunteers from Pakistan, Chechnya and Arab countries -- continued to hold out. Abdullah said many Afghan Taliban who wished to surrender were killed by their non-Afghan allies. Others surrendered to Northern Alliance forces at Mazar-e Sharif, only to stage an uprising at a prison compound that had left several hundred killed or wounded by Monday afternoon. On Sunday, Gen. Atiqullah Baryalai, the Northern Alliance commander in the Konduz area, said his troops had entered the city and encountered only light resistance and small-arms fire. In addition, Baryalai said, Northern Alliance troops gained complete control of the outlying town of Kanabad on Sunday. 
The United States has entered a "dangerous period" in the war against terrorism, and Americans should expect some U.S. combat deaths, President Bush said Monday. Other countries harboring terrorists could also face U.S. action, said Bush, who called on Iraq to allow independent weapons inspections. "This is a dangerous period of time," Bush said, during a Rose Garden appearance with two freed U.S. aid workers who had been held for months by the Taliban. "This is a period of time in which we're now hunting down the people responsible for bombing America." The battle against terrorism would be a "long, long struggle," and Americans "must be prepared for the loss of life," said Bush, speaking after hundreds of U.S. Marines had set up a base just south of Kandahar. "Obviously, no president or commander-in-chief hopes anybody loses life in the theater (of war), but it's going to happen," he said. "I believe the American people understand that we have got a mighty struggle on our hands and that there will be sacrifice." Other nations on notice Afghanistan, Bush said, "is just the beginning." Other nations could face U.S. reprisals, said Bush, repeating a statement he has made in the past. "If they fund a terrorist, they're a terrorist," he said. "If they house terrorists, they're terrorists. "If they develop weapons of mass destruction that will be used to terrorize nations, they will be held accountable," the president said. "And, as for Mr. Saddam Hussein (president of Iraq), he needs to let inspectors back in his country to show us that he is not developing weapons of mass destruction." Asked what the consequences would be if Hussein refused to do so, Bush replied, "He'll find out." Bush's comments on Iraq were "nothing new," said White House press secretary Ari Fleischer, who discounted suggestions that the president's statements indicated Iraq could be the next target of U.S. military action in the war on terrorism. Thanks from workers The two freed workers, Heather Mercer and Dayna Curry, offered thanks for prayers on their behalf during their Taliban custody. They also thanked Bush, and said they were proud to be Americans. "I think if we had a whole lifetime to say thank you, we wouldn't do it right, we wouldn't do it appropriately," Mercer said. Mercer, 24, and Curry, 30, arrived in Washington Sunday. They were among a group of eight international workers for the German-based group Shelter Now who were arrested by the Taliban in August and charged with trying to convert Muslims to Christianity. They were freed November 15, shortly after their Taliban captors were forced to flee the Afghan capital Kabul. 
 KOENIGSWINTER, Germany -- Leaders of Afghan factions meet to discuss post-Taliban Afghanistan on Tuesday with the United Nations urging "speedy" action towards an interim government. The U.N. also wants an international security force to stop warlords' in-fighting. U.N. mediators outlined their agenda on Monday for the crucial talks between the Afghan parties this week at a hotel near Bonn, Germany. Added urgency was given to the conference by the continuing advance of anti-Taliban forces in Afghanistan. "We need to get a transitional authority in the country as soon as possible," U.N. spokesman Ahmad Fawzi said. "All parties agree it is imperative. Speed is of the essence." Representatives of three exiled Afghan factions held preliminary talks -- both with a U.N. mediator and among themselves -- on Monday before the arrival of the Northern Alliance. Its representatives were due to arrive later in the day but its foreign minister, Abdullah Abdullah, said his group was ready to share power in a broad-based administration. "It is a unique moment for Afghanistan," Abdullah said. U.N. mediator Lakhdar Brahimi has drawn up an outline plan for the talks -- expected to last two weeks -- that call for creation of a broad-based interim administration in Afghanistan. Its size, who should head it and how long it will be in place before convening a national council, known as a loya jirga, are key questions at the talks. The U.N. insists that the factions are representative enough to set the terms of the post-Taliban era. "Afghanistan is a very big, fractured country at the moment," Fawzi told a news conference near the conference venue. "We're very lucky we've got the four groups together. "It's the best we can do at this stage," he said. "It's only the first step along a very long road." Also driving the agenda are fears among regional powers of renewed civil war between the armed Afghan factions that erupted after they drove out Soviet occupiers in 1989. "There's a lot of anxiety in the country and its neighbours that events could move in that direction," said a senior U.S. official close to the talks, speaking to the Associated Press on condition of anonymity. Getting the Northern Alliance and the others to approve an international U.N. security force would be the "most viable" way to provide security in Afghanistan, Fawzi said. "I think the Afghan parties will realise that security is an important for international involvement in Afghanistan," he said, referring in part to international aid workers. The Northern Alliance, made up of Tajiks, Uzbeks and other ethnic minorities, is likely to be in a strong position at the conference. Its forces have already taken control of much of the country in a series of swift military strikes against the crumbling Taliban regime. Its 21-member delegation is to include a woman, officials said. However, many Afghans are suspicious of the alliance's motives. It monopolised power the last time it ruled Kabul, the Afghan capital, between 1992 and 1996. Others attending have been organised under the name "the Rome Group," which includes members of the so-called Peshawar Group, a Pakistani-backed assembly of exiled leaders of the Pashtuns. Koenigswinter Plans for Afghanistan's future will be mapped out at the German hotel The ethnic group, which comprises about 40 percent of Afghanistan's population, is the largest and most dominant group in the country. Also expected are members of "the Cyprus Group," whose interests are backed by Iran. The former Afghan king, Zahir Shah, will also attend. Diplomats from the U.S., Russia, the United Kingdom and neighbours such as Pakistan and Iran will be present on the sidelines of the talks, though they will not take part in the actual negotiations. "The challenge in Bonn is to develop a process where the warlords become representatives of their populations," British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said on Monday in London. He said he was not concerned that the leaders of the various Afghan factions were sending deputies, as preliminary talks were often a successful way to get negotiations going. The prize for the Afghans is the prospect of billions in foreign aid to rebuild the war-ravaged country. "Until there is a government that is broadly representative and recognised by us, there's not going to be any reconstruction assistance," the U.S. official told AP. After Tuesday's planned formal opening, the talks will break up into a shifting series of negotiating groups to try to build a consensus, diplomats said. Looking beyond the talks to the revival of Afghan society, about 50 Afghan intellectuals -- academics, journalists, traders, women's activists -- will meet on Thursday in Bonn for a four-day conference. 
A train carrying vital humanitarian aid for Afghanistan crossed the border from Uzbekistan on Sunday. It is the first time the Friendship Bridge, which extends across the Amu Darya river from the border town of Termez, has opened to traffic for four years. The move follows talks in Tashkent on Saturday between US Secretary of State Colin Powell and Uzbek President Islam Karimov. Refugees in an Afghan camp Aid agencies say supplies are desperately needed in the north And as the UN World Food Programme (WFP) began a major aid operation in the capital Kabul, a spokesman from the agency said fears of an aid crisis this winter were dissipating rapidly. "With the opening of the Friendship Bridge in Uzbekistan we are able to reach more people than ever before," said Mike Huggins. "We are trying to reach six million people and we believe we are getting ever closer to that goal." Thousands of people queued for the supplies at 16 collection points across Kabul. At some points, there were chaotic scenes as people jostled and pushed forward to get a single sack of wheat. Click here for map of the border area of northern Afghanistan In another development, the Tajik Government has reopened a ferry crossing to Afghanistan across the Pyandzh river, A convoy of more than 20 trucks from Russia was reported to have crossed the river on Sunday morning and to be on its way to Kabul. Decision welcomed Uzbekistan has been under strong international pressure to reopen the Friendship Bridge as the harsh winter arrives, amid mounting concern about the welfare of Afghans displaced by fighting. The train, pulling about 15 coachloads of grain and flour provided by the WFP and the Uzbek Government, shunted across the midway line of the bridge marking the border between the two countries and came to a halt on the Afghan side. Aid at Termez on the Uzbek-Afghan border Aid is currently being transferred across the border by barge A sign in Russian on the side of the coaches read: "Aid from the Uzbek people to the fraternal people of Afghanistan". The train was met by the ethnic Uzbek Afghan warlord Abdul Rashid Dostum, who inspected the load. International aid agencies welcomed the announcement that the bridge was to be re-opened. A spokesman for the United Nations Children's Fund, Rudy Rodrigues, told the BBC he was delighted with the news, which he said would greatly speed up the delivery of aid. We are sitting here hungry, on the brink of starvation, and nobody is interested in our plight Refugee near Mazar-e-Sharif The journey by road to Mazar-e-Sharif, the site of a major Afghan refugee camp, takes just 40 minutes along this route. But without the bridge, it can take up to 10 days to deliver aid supplies to northern Afghanistan, using routes through Turkmenistan and Pakistan. The bridge was closed in 1997 after serious clashes erupted between Taleban and opposition forces, sparking fears in Tashkent that violence could spread across the border. During the current US military campaign against the Taleban regime, the Uzbek authorities have allowed the UN to ship aid by barge across the river, but agencies warned that this was insufficient to get supplies to the people who most needed them. 'Children dying' There are an estimated 150,000 refugees living in flimsy tents in a refugee camp near Mazar-e-Sharif, where snows have arrived and temperatures drop below freezing every night. Aid agencies say young children are already dying due to lack of warm clothing, and temperatures are expected to fall further in the days ahead. Mazar-e-Sharif is regarded by the aid agencies as a key distribution point for supplying northern Afghanistan and for sending aid down to the central highlands, where many Afghans will soon be blocked off by snow. 
US President George W Bush has told the United Nations that every country has a duty to fight terrorism. Addressing the General Assembly for the first time, Mr Bush said no country could be neutral at a time when terror groups were reported to be seeking weapons of mass destruction. Those who supported terrorism, he said, were guilty by association and would pay a price. We should be vigilant to avoid the pitfall of fuelling rather than suppressing terrorism through unilateral practices stemming from pride and rage Iranian President Mohammad Khatami "Civilisation itself - the civilisation we share - is threatened. History will record our response and judge or justify every nation in this hall," he said. But Mr Bush was warned by a long-standing foe - Iran - and an ally - Pakistan - that its military campaign in Afghanistan may increase support for terrorism. He also urged the Northern Alliance forces, who now control the key town of Mazar-e-Sharif and are hoping to push south, not to enter Kabul. In other developments: Pakistan's President Pervez Musharraf offers talks with India on nuclear and conventional arms in an effort to reduce tension in South Asia Osama Bin Laden tells the Pakistani newspaper Dawn that he has nuclear and chemical weapons Five Algerians arrested in French city of Strasbourg on suspicion of preparing an attack on cathedral The Pakistani Government says efforts to form a broad-based government in Afghanistan must continue despite the war. President Mohammad Khatami of Iran, addressing the General Assembly shortly after Mr Bush, condemned the 11 September attacks in the United States as "inhumane" and "un-Islamic". Violence not justified But he added: "Resorting to violence and revenge to counter such acts can hardly be justified under ethical and humane considerations." Mr Khatami said a definition of terrorism should include Israeli actions against Palestinians, such as occupying Arab territory, expelling people from their homes and killing civilians. UN Secretary General Kofi Annan Mr Annan warned against forgetting other causes Mr Bush also addressed the conflict in the Middle East, reiterating the support for a Palestinian state that he first expressed in the aftermath of 11 September. Pakistan's President, Pervez Musharraf, said extremists thrived in environments where millions of people - such as the Palestinians - suffered injustice. He said a three-pronged strategy was needed, hunting individual terrorists, targetting their organisations and resolving major conflicts in a just manner. He said a solution also had to be found for the disputed territory of Kashmir - claimed by both Pakistan and India. Nuclear threats General Musharraf also offered talks with India on nuclear and conventional arms in an effort to calm tensions in South Asia which correspondents say have increased since the 11 September attacks on the United States. But he said he did not believe that Osama bin Laden's al-Qaeda network had acquired nuclear arms. Mr Bush said the Taleban's days were "drawing to a close". He promised the US would "work to build a post-Taleban government that represents all of the people" of Afghanistan after the current regime was destroyed. Strength and anger The BBC's UN correspondent Greg Barrow says Mr Bush delivered a strong speech punctuated by anger. A murderer is not a martyr - he is just a murderer George W Bush Mr Bush said that religion did not justify terrorism. "Terrorists cannot hide behind Islam. They encourage murder and suicide in the name of a religion that forbids both," he said. Annan priorities In his address to the General Assembly, UN Secretary General Kofi Annan, said there was now a temptation to focus all of the world's energy on the struggle against terrorism. But he warned that this would give victory to terrorists. Mr Annan, defined four issues on which he believed the UN should concentrate its greatest efforts. These were the eradication of poverty; the fight against Aids and other preventable diseases; resolving armed conflicts; and protecting the environment. Opening the annual debate at the UN General Assembly, Mr Annan said Africa was the continent where each of these issues faced its biggest challenge. He said the common thread linking them was the need to respect fundamental human rights. The 56th session of the UN General Assembly was to have opened in September but was postponed in the wake of the attacks in the US - the first time the opening has ever been delayed. The session has been shortened to seven days from the planned 10. Nearly 50 heads of state and government and more than 100 foreign ministers attended the opening session. 
Northern Alliance President Burhanuddin Rabbani said Sunday he is looking to the United Nations to address the issue of non-Afghan Taliban soldiers captured in fighting with opposition forces. Those "foreign fighters" will be guaranteed safety and turned over to the international body, Rabbani said. "As for Arab, Pakistani and other fighters," Rabbani told reporters, "we would like to find a solution despite the fact that they were fighting against us. We have nothing to do with them. We forgive them. We would like to hand them over to the United Nations and it will be up to the United Nations whether to return them to their countries or do whatever they want to do with them." The Northern Alliance had previously said the non-Afghan fighters would be arrested and tried as war criminals. Rabbani also detailed the representation for Tuesday's summit in Bonn, Germany, on the political future of Afghanistan. Delegations will represent the Northern Alliance; the "Rome Group," which represents former Afghan King Mohammad Zahir Shah; the "Peshawar Group," for the millions of Afghan refugees in Pakistan; and the "Cyprus Group," for the large Afghan diaspora. Rabbani said he hopes to secure the formation of a 12-member executive council which will return to Afghanistan for approval by a loya jirga, a traditional grand meeting of Afghan elders. They would approve the formation of the eventual transitional government for the country. 
Northern Alliance leaders Sunday claimed control of half of Konduz, the Taliban's last stronghold in northern Afghanistan, amid an uprising by Taliban prisoners who surrendered a day before. Northern Alliance officials said hundreds of Taliban prisoners who surrendered Saturday staged a violent uprising Sunday outside Mazar-e Sharif. Northern Alliance Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostum, who helped negotiate the surrender agreement last week, brought in an additional 500 Northern Alliance troops to put down the rebellion with the aid of U.S. airstrikes. A German television reporter at the fortress-like compound in Mazar-e Sharif on Sunday afternoon said some Taliban prisoners detonated hand grenades, killing themselves and several guards nearby. At that point, other Taliban fighters grabbed weapons that had been confiscated and staged a revolt. He said hundreds of prisoners may have been killed in the uprising. In Washington, U.S. Army Lt. Col. Dan Stoneking, a Pentagon spokesman, confirmed that U.S. planes did strike the prison compound Sunday. And Sgt. Maj. Rich Czizik, a spokesman for the U.S. Central Command, said no U.S. military personnel were injured in the revolt. But Czizik said he could not speak for any other branch of the U.S. government, such as the CIA or American contractors. More than 1,000 Taliban fighters -- many of them hard-core volunteers from Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Chechnya and Uzbekistan -- have given themselves up around Konduz since Friday. About 400 of those were held at Mazar-e Sharif. Saturday, another surrendering Taliban fighter at Mazar-e Sharif detonated a grenade, killing himself and two companions and seriously injuring a top Northern Alliance commander. The Taliban prisoners were part of the garrison at Konduz, the last major pocket of Taliban resistance in northern Afghanistan. Another 250 Taliban troops surrendered Sunday, departing the city in a 30-vehicle convoy along with machine guns, assault rifles and rocket launchers. Gen. Atiqullah Baryalai, the Northern Alliance commander there, said Sunday his troops have entered encountered only light resistance and small-arms fire upon entering the city. In addition, Baryalai said Northern Alliance troops were in complete control of the outlying town of Kanabad. In Konduz, most Taliban fighters were retreating to the western part of the city, he said, and fighting could still be heard as anti-Taliban troops advanced. Some who surrendered said they would switch sides to help the Northern Alliance fight for the city. Baryalai said about 3,000 hard-core, non-Afghan Taliban fighters remain in Konduz. But in Washington, U.S. military officials estimated the remaining Taliban strength at 600 to 800. At Kanabad, Northern Alliance forces said they encountered some resistance from troops belonging to Osama bin Laden's al Qaeda organization. U.S. officials blame al Qaeda for the September 11 terrorist attacks on New York and Washington. A Northern Alliance leader at Kanabad, Engineer Omar, told CNN that Juma Numangani said a bin Laden deputy died from injuries suffered in a bomb blast near Mazar-e Sharif. His death could not be independently confirmed. Numangani was a prime target of U.S. bombing near Dashtiqala two weeks ago. He established the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan, which sought to replace the country's secular government with a fundamentalist Islamic regime. Northern Alliance President Burhanuddin Rabbani said Sunday any non-Afghan Taliban fighters captured in fighting should be turned over to the United Nations and granted amnesty. The Northern Alliance had previously said the non-Afghan fighters should be arrested and tried as war criminals. "We would like to find a solution despite the fact that they were fighting against us," Rabbani said. "We have nothing to do with them. We forgive them." 
Speculation is intensifying over the whereabouts of Taleban leader Mullah Mohammed Omar, after his fighters gave up control of their last major stronghold - the southern Afghan city of Kandahar. If Mullah Omar is found, he must face trial Hamid Karzai Afghan interim leader A spokesman for Gul Agha Sherzai, the former governor of Kandahar, said Mullah Omar was being held in the city under the protection of a former mujahideen commander, Mullah Naqibullah, who is sympathetic to the Taleban. US chief of staff Andrew Card declared that the Bush administration was also "pretty sure" the Taleban leader remained in the city. But Afghanistan's interim leader Hamid Karzai was less confident. "We don't know where Mullah Omar is," he told the Associated Press news agency. "We are looking for him. He is a fugitive." In other developments: Al-Qaeda fighters offer fierce resistance as American planes and anti-Taleban forces attack Osama Bin Laden's hideouts in eastern Afghanistan Uzbekistan agrees to reopen its "friendship bridge" to Afghanistan to speed up the delivery of humanitarian aid US Secretary of State Colin Powell, currently in Uzbekistan, cancels a planned visit to Kyrgyzstan because of bad weather The head of United Nations peacekeeping operations, Jean-Marie Guehenno, calls for a multinational force to be deployed in Afghanistan as soon as possible Pakistan's President Pervez Musharraf calls Mr Karzai to offer help to his fledgling Afghan administration Mr Karzai has insisted that Mullah Omar will be arrested if found. "I have given him every chance to denounce terrorism and now the time has run out," he said. "If he is found, he must face trial." US Marines man their posts in defence of Camp Rhino US military action in Afghanistan is far from over, says President Bush But Washington is still undecided as to what to do with the Taleban leader and his top commanders if they are captured, according to General Tommy Franks, chief of the US Central Command. "Do we demand to take them ourselves out of Afghanistan or could they perhaps be handled in some other way by the government within Afghanistan?" he said. "I'm not sure what policy decision will be taken on that issue." The BBC's Katty Kay in Washington says the US would prefer both Mullah Omar and Osama Bin Laden - the man suspected of masterminding the 11 September attacks on New York and Washington - to be killed by opposition forces on the ground, eliminating the political risks of putting either on trial. Power struggle US forces have meanwhile been engaged on the ground against Taleban troops trying to flee Kandahar, as well as bombing them from the air. The situation within Kandahar itself is thought to be extremely tense, with reports of clashes between rival groups seeking to cement new powerbases. Taleban leader Mullah Mohammad Omar Mullah Omar is accused of harbouring terrorists There are currently three competing areas of control. One is led by forces loyal to Mr Karzai, while Mr Sherzai controls another and a third is in the hands of another opposition leader, Mullah Naqibullah. The rival leaders have set up a shura, or city council, to bring an end to the clashes and restore some form of civic administration. BBC correspondents say that, with the Taleban's collapse all but complete, the US campaign is now focusing on the hunt for Bin Laden. But he has proved as elusive as his friend and ally Mullah Omar. Anti-Taleban forces have advanced on a major cave complex thought to be Bin Laden's main operating base, but have so far found no trace of the suspected terrorist. There is some speculation that he may have slipped into Pakistan, but the US State Department has expressed confidence that he remains inside Afghanistan. 
More than 1,000 Taliban troops surrendered to Northern Alliance troops around Konduz on Saturday, moving south of the besieged city to hand over their weapons. Northern Alliance Gen. Jaffar Naderi told CNN a Taliban commander with 450 Afghan troops surrendered on Saturday near Pul-e Kumhri. "I'm try going to get these people who have surrendered to me out and move them toward Baghlan Province," Naderi said. The surrendering troops are mostly Afghans who "didn't do anything to bad to the Afghan people," he said, and "Now they are fighting for the Northern Alliance under my command." Earlier, at least 500 Taliban surrendered Saturday east of Konduz, and 400 more turned themselves in west of the city, near Mazar-e Sharif. Those who gave themselves up east of Konduz included a senior Taliban commander, Mullah Hamidullah. "I have given up my arms and surrendered to Northern Alliance," Hamidullah told CNN. He said he brought with him 250 Taliban soldiers, about 15 cars and three anti-aircraft guns. Northern Alliance officials said they had expected another top Taliban leader, Mullah Amidullah, to surrender on Sunday. A top Taliban commander negotiated the surrender Wednesday with Northern Alliance Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostum. The surrender is supposed to be complete by Sunday, but hard-core Taliban fighters and al Qaeda troops -- most from outside Afghanistan -- have vowed to keep fighting. The Northern Alliance has amassed about 30,000 troops around Konduz, the last city in the north to be held by the Taliban. Tanks and hundreds of troops drove to the front line near the city Saturday, saying they were prepared to launch an attack as soon as the signal is given. At Mazar-e Sharif, Dostum and other Northern Alliance officers coordinating the surrender were accompanied by U.S. troops, who were overlooking the situation from a distance. In Washington, a U.S. official said some of the fighters in the besieged city may be deputies and lieutenants to Osama bin Laden, the chief suspect in the September 11 terror attacks on New York and Washington. Northern Alliance commanders believe the majority of the surrendering troops near Mazar-e Sharif are from Pakistan, Chechnya and Saudi Arabia. Northern Alliance officials were interviewing the surrendering troops, trying to separate Afghan Taliban fighters from the international troops. Many of the non-Afghan Taliban fighters are loyal to bin Laden, and it has been feared that those inside Konduz would choose to fight to the death. At Mazar-e Sharif, a surrendering Taliban soldier detonated a hand grenade Saturday, killing himself and two comrades and seriously injuring a senior Northern Alliance commander. Dostum said he wants to hand non-Afghan Taliban over to the United Nations, but no U.N. representative is present in the city. The Pentagon on Saturday denied persistent reports that Pakistani planes were airlifting Pakistani fighters out of Konduz. Lt. Col. David Lapan, a Pentagon spokesman, said the United States controls the skies over Afghanistan, and "it makes no sense we'd allow aircraft in to take them out." U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld has said that Washington would oppose any surrender agreement that allows the Taliban's international volunteers to leave the country. On the east side of Konduz, about 500 Taliban troops in 20 Taliban pickup trucks, four military trucks and four tanks crossed the Bangi Bridge in Takhar Province to surrender themselves and their weapons. Northern Alliance troops warmly greeted their former Taliban foes, shaking their hands and welcoming them to their territory. Defecting troops told CNN they had surrendered under the request of their commanders and because the U.S. airstrikes on Konduz had demoralized the forces. They said they were willing to join the Northern Alliance in fighting the remaining Taliban inside Konduz. 
The Taleban have handed over the last Afghan city under their control, Kandahar, but their pull-out has been accompanied by clashes between rival opposition groups. A spokesman for one of the local commanders, the former governor Gul Agha, said their forces had taken over part of the city following fighting with supporters of another commander, Mullah Naquibullah, who oversaw the Taleban's surrender. The spokesman said they did not recognise Mullah Naqibullah's authority in Kandahar. Earlier, Hamid Karzai, head of the new interim Afghan government, told the BBC the situation in the city would get better. But reports quoting eye-witnesses say there has been shooting and checkpoints have appeared on various roads in Kandahar. There is also confusion over the whereabouts of the Taleban leader, Mullah Mohammed Omar. 'Fugitive from justice' A news agency close to the Taleban, the Afghan Islamic Press (AIP), quoted a member of Kandahar's new tribal council as saying Mullah Omar had fled from the city. Mr Karzai said Mullah Omar would be arrested if found. "I have given him every chance to denounce terrorism and now the time has run out. He is an absconder, a fugitive from justice," Mr Karzai said. The objective is to take Afghanistan from rule by the barrel of the gun to rule by the people Hamid Karzai Kenton Keith, spokesman for the US-led coalition, said: "The opposition forces are closing in on him and we expect at some point, within a reasonable period, he will be in the hands of the opposition and we hope to co-operate in bringing him to justice." Mr Karzai, speaking from a desert camp near Kandahar, said the Taleban had fled in disarray. "All of last night they were fleeing the city. Just running away," he said. In other developments: Anti-Taleban forces say they have captured part of Osama Bin Laden's main base in the eastern region of Tora Bora, but found no trace of the Saudi-born militant The bodies of three US soldiers killed in friendly fire and 17 soldiers who were injured arrive at Ramstein air force base in Germany US Marines attack a Taleban convoy near Kandahar, killing seven fighters, in their first offensive ground action in southern Afghanistan Yemen said it was hunting down two Yemenis suspected by the United States of being key agents in Osama bin Laden's al-Qaeda network New Afghan Interior Minister Younis Qanooni is visiting India for talks on the interim government in Kabul and reconstruction Map of Afghanistan showing locations where Taleban are surrendering and Tora Bora cave complex Taleban forces are also surrendering in other southern Afghan towns such as Spin Boldak and Lashkargah. Haji Bashar, a member of Kandahar's new council, composed of tribal elders, clerics and opposition commanders, was quoted by AIP as saying the Taleban had completed their surrender in the city. He said they had laid down their guns and handed over power to the council. Other reports, however, spoke of chaos and widespread looting in Kandahar as Taleban fighters abandoned their spiritual capital. Gunfire was said to be heard in many areas and bands of criminals were roaming the streets - as were anti-Taleban forces and groups of foreign Taleban fighters, mainly Arabs. Mr Karzai said the safety of rank-and-file Taleban fighters who had not "associated themselves with terrorism" would be guaranteed. He denied that the United States had put him under pressure to refuse Mullah Omar amnesty. Confusion in Kandahar Mr Karzai said power in Kandahar had been transferred to the new council. "The real authority... in Kandahar from now onwards should be with the council of tribal elders and religious clergy," he said. "The objective is to take Afghanistan from rule by the barrel of the gun to rule by the people," he added. But Gul Agha strongly criticised the agreement reached with the Taleban and said Kandahar had descended into anarchy. "Karzai... has made a very, very wrong decision in Kandahar by himself. He did not consult the elders or anyone else," his spokesman, Khalid Pashtoon told Reuters. "Now the city is in chaos, there is street-by-street fighting, looting is going on. Everything has been caused by this gentleman, the new prime minister," Mr Pashtoon added. Bin Laden next target Thousands of residents have fled Kandahar after weeks of US bombing and a siege by anti-Taleban forces. Since the US-led military campaign began on 7 October, the Taleban have repeatedly claimed many civilian deaths. The French news agency AFP quoted an anonymous Taleban source in Pakistan on Friday as saying that US air raids had killed 10,000 people in Kandahar. There has been no independent verification. Anti-Taleban fighter in Tora Bora region The Tora Bora caves were taken in overnight fighting BBC correspondents say that with the Taleban's collapse all but complete, the US campaign is now focusing on the hunt for Osama Bin Laden, accused by Washington of masterminding the 11 September suicide attacks in New York and Washington. There has been speculation that he fled to a mountain fortress - a complex of caves in a part of eastern Afghanistan known as Tora Bora, occupied by hundreds of al-Qaeda fighters. Units of the Northern Alliance, helped by special forces of the US-led coalition, have attacked the caves and say they now control large parts of them. They say they have detained many people but have seen no sign of Bin Laden so far. The US-led coalition's spokesman, Kenton Keith, told the BBC that he believed Bin Laden was still in Afghanistan. 
Diehard al-Qaeda fighters are ferociously resisting an onslaught by tribal forces in Osama Bin Laden's underground hideout in the rugged Tora Bora mountains of eastern Afghanistan. Attacked from the skies by American bombers and on the ground by anti-Taleban forces, the al-Qaeda fighters are holding out with barrages of rockets and mortars. The whereabouts of Bin Laden himself, however, remain a mystery. Osama was not in Tora Bora during the past days of fighting and if he had been, he has probably slipped into Pakistan Northern Alliance spokesman Intense fighting was reported as Northern Alliance troops overran part of the complex of caves and tunnels near Jalalabad where Bin Laden is believed to have set up his headquarters. But commander Hazrat Ali told the Associated Press news agency that his forces had later pulled back to let American bombs soften up the al-Qaeda positions before resuming the offensive. A Northern Alliance spokesman, Mohammed Habeel, suggested that Bin Laden, accused of masterminding the 11 September suicide attacks in the United States, may have fled to Pakistan. Mr Habeel said troops attacking the caves had not found Bin Laden himself. 'Children in the line of fire' Several hundred members of Bin Laden's al-Qaeda network were thought to have lived in the caves, some with their families. Anti-Taleban fighters said that during lulls in the fighting, they had seen Arab children playing near the entrances to caves high in the mountains. Mr Habeel said Arabs, including women, had been captured, along with weapons and vehicles. "Osama was not in Tora Bora during the past days of fighting and if he had been, he has probably slipped into Pakistan," Mr Habeel said. Some fighters, however, reported sighting a man resembling Bin Laden visiting the al-Qaeda fighters on horseback. (Click here to see map of Tora Bora caves) Many of Bin Laden's Arab fighters are reported to have moved up to high ground above the caves. From there, they could escape to other parts of Afghanistan or Pakistan. The cave complex, about 56 kilometres (35 miles) south-west of the eastern Afghan city of Jalalabad, was used by mujahideen forces fighting Soviet troops in the 1980s. The US secretly helped to build the base. Civilian casualties The complex has taken a battering from American B-52 warplanes which have been dropping 110kg and 225kg bombs. The explosions set off huge orange flashes and filled the valley with clouds of smoke and dust. Anti-Taleban fighters near Tora Bora Waiting for US bombs to soften up the enemy The French humanitarian group, Medecins sans Frontieres (MSF), said more than 80 Afghan civilians had been killed and 50 others wounded by US bombs around Tora Bora in recent days. MSF workers have recovered the bodies, the group said. The Pentagon insists that all its strikes in the Tora Bora region have successfully hit their targets. But the Pentagon is investigating how a satellite-guided American "smart" bomb missed its target and accidentally killed three American soldiers and five anti-Taleban fighters in southern Afghanistan on Wednesday. 
Japan will send 1,500 troops for the Afghan relief operations which are likely to start in next few weeks, a senior Japanese official said Friday. Japan will send two transport ships, escorted by three destroyers, to the region to provide logistical support and bring in relief supplies for Afghanistan, said Daisuke Matsunaga, assistant press secretary for the Japanese foreign ministry. Also, Japan will send eight aircraft , including six transport planes, to help the U.S.-led international coalition in its campaign against terrorism in Afghanistan, he told reporters. "Japanese self defense forces will not take part in combat operations ... nor they will be deployed inside Afghanistan or Pakistan," he said. They will concentrate on relief work, logistical support and may carry out rescue operations, he added. COUNTRY PROFILE At a glance: Japan Provided by CountryWatch.com CNN.com Asia More news from our Asia edition The Japanese warships and troops will be the first Japanese military contingent to help forces in combat since the end of World War II. Matsunaga said that Japan wants mainly to contribute rehabilitation and development efforts of war-battered Afghanistan. Warships in Gulf A flotilla of three Japanese warships carrying several hundred sailors set sail for the region earlier this month, making good on the Japanese government's pledge to support U.S.-led forces in the war against terrorism. Their mission is to provide non-combat military support. This role is unlike any Japan has filled since World War II. Ten years ago Japan agreed to send minesweepers to the Persian Gulf only after the Gulf War was over. 
Experts from across the world have agreed that a voice praising recent attacks on Western targets is that of al-Qaeda leader Osama Bin Laden. The listing of killings in Bali, Kuwait and Yemen and the takeover of a Moscow theatre by Chechen rebels would mean that Bin Laden was still alive last month. It does sound like Bin Laden's voice US official Detailed authentication of the tape broadcast by the Arabic television station al-Jazeera is being undertaken by US intelligence agents using specialist equipment. But officials in Washington have already said they believe it was Bin Laden who made the recording, which goes on to threaten more attacks against the US and its allies. One US official said: "It does sound like Bin Laden's voice," while another added: "It is probably him." Possible sickness Experts are believed to be scrutinising the tone of the voice on the audio tape as well as inflection patterns and word usage. George Michael, a language analyst in the US who has worked on previous Bin Laden tapes, told BBC's Today programme he would be prepared to swear in court that the statement was made by the al-Qaeda leader. Tora Bora mountains bombed, December, 2001 Bin Laden could have been hurt in the US military campaign in Afghanistan "I'm used to his voice - if it's not his voice it's an excellent imitation and I don't know how it could be done," he said. There were some differences to previous Bin Laden messages, in particular sentences were shorter and more sharply enunciated, as if the speaker was on a dialysis machine and had to catch his breath to talk, Mr Michael said. Bin Laden is said to have kidney problems and be in need of dialysis. Japanese voice expert Matsumi Suzuki agreed with Mr Michael that the voice on the tape was Bin Laden's, Kyodo news agency reported. Mr Suzuki said his analysis showed the message had been recorded in a room with a tight security system and that the speaker was hoarse, suggesting he was unwell. True to style Bin Laden's fate has been the centre of intense speculation since the US launched a bombing campaign against al-Qaeda and the Taleban Government in Afghanistan at the end of 2001 and then sent ground troops to mop up militants. Bali bomb aftermath The voice praised the bomb attack in Bali Though some have said they believe the Saudi dissident is dead, the head of Interpol, Ronald Noble, told a French newspaper last week that Bin Laden was "well and truly alive". The BBC's security affairs correspondent Frank Gardner said the audio tape carried a message true to al-Qaeda's style. Our correspondent says it is certainly characteristic of Bin Laden to praise attacks blamed on al-Qaeda without directly taking responsibility. 'Raids' reaction Al-Qaeda is held responsible for the 11 September 2001 attacks on New York and Washington as well as bombings of Western targets before and after. The voice on the tape referred to events since "the raids of New York and Washington", including the Bali bombing where nearly 200 people died, the killing of a US marine in Kuwait and the attack on a French oil tanker off the coast of Yemen. The most recent event mentioned was the Moscow theatre siege, which ended on 26 October. Do your governments not know that the White House gangsters are the biggest butchers of this age? Message to US allies The voice said these attacks were reactions "by the zealous sons of Islam in defence of their religion", citing the continued Israeli-Palestinian conflict. He warned that America's allies - specifically Britain, France, Italy, Canada, Germany and Australia - would also be targeted if they continued to support Washington. "Do your governments not know that the White House gangsters are the biggest butchers of this age?" he asked. He warned: "You will be killed just as you kill." Al-Jazeera did not say how it received the latest tape but it has played a series of messages in the past two months that it says are from the al-Qaeda leader. In September, the network played a recording of what the CIA authenticated to be Bin Laden's voice naming all 19 hijackers from the 11 September attacks. But officials said the recording might have been made months earlier. 
Delegates from four Afghan factions have signed an agreement on a transitional government to run the country after 20 years of war. The eyes of the world will be on you and you carry a huge responsibility UN special envoy Lakhdar Brahimi After the signing, United Nations special envoy Lakhdar Brahimi welcomed the agreement, saying the international community would stand by Afghanistan. "The UN and the entire international community feel a tremendous sense of hope in the knowledge that agreement has been signed here in Bonn," he said. But he warned that the new government carried a "huge responsibility" and the eyes of the world would be upon it. "You must live up to your commitment to promote national reconciliation, protect human rights, encourage relations with your neighbours. You must serve your people in a democratic and transparent manner," he said. Ahmad Karzai Karzai: Currently fighting Taleban near Kandahar The UN-brokered deal came on the ninth day of gruelling talks, the final session of which went on all night, in a luxury hotel in the former West German capital. The power-sharing council is to be headed by Pashtun tribal commander Hamid Karzai and will take office on 22 December. BBC correspondents in Kabul say initial reaction amongst people there is one of real delight and relief that the talks appear to have reached a successful conclusion. Contacted by the BBC, Mr Karzai said he was glad to be entrusted with the task of leading his country. He was talking by satellite phone from north of the southern Afghan city of Kandahar, where his forces are battling the Taleban for control. He said his main priority was to restore absolute peace and security, and to bring unity to Afghanistan. "I hope that with God's help we shall take the country forward to a much better future," he said. In other developments: Two US soldiers are killed and another 20 injured in a botched US bombing raid north of Kandahar Thousands of anti-Taleban fighters prepare to attack a mountain base in eastern Afghanistan where Osama Bin Laden - accused of masterminding the 11 September attacks on the US - is believed to be hiding Anti-Taleban forces in southern Afghanistan withdraw from Kandahar airport after meeting fierce resistance Taleban leaders in the Pakistani city of Peshawar reportedly form a pressure group to urge their spiritual leader, Mullah Omar, to surrender Kandahar The UN calls on Pakistan to lift restrictions that have left 2,000 refugees stranded without food or shelter in a makeshift camp in the no-man's land between Afghanistan and Pakistan Who gets what? The Northern Alliance - which has controlled Kabul since the Taleban fled last month - will hold a total of 17 of the 30 cabinet posts, including the three most powerful ministries. UN blueprint Interim authority to rule for six months A supreme court to be set up A 21-member special independent commission to call a traditional assembly, or Loya Jirga Loya Jirga to elect transitional government A multinational force to secure Kabul Delegation head Yunus Qanooni will be interior minister, alliance commander-in-chief General Mohammad Fahim will be in charge of the Defence Ministry and Dr Abdullah Abdullah will retain the foreign affairs portfolio. Two women are among those named. One of them, Sima Samar, will be one of Mr Karzai's five vice chairs. The UN has said the new authority must guarantee freedom of expression and women's rights. King's role The text of the UN proposals has not been released, but earlier drafts included plans to set up a special commission to convene a Loya Jirga, or traditional grand assembly. Afghan girl holds baby in Kabul cemetery Afghans need the new government to succeed The former King, Zahir Shah, is expected to participate in the assembly, though it is not clear if he will open it, as some of his supporters have urged. The interim administration will rule for six months until this assembly is convened. The assembly will then elect a transitional government to rule for about two years until a constitution is drawn up and elections held. Peacekeepers The UN text also proposes a multinational peacekeeping force for Kabul, but does not stipulate the force's size, mandate or duration. The text says peacekeepers would be deployed at the Afghan administration's request. The conclusion of the talks is a big fillip for a gathering of major international aid donors taking place in Berlin. Big donor countries kept up pressure on the Afghan factions by warning them that billions of dollars in reconstruction aid depended on a deal being reached. 
Despite Northern Alliance claims Thursday that the Taliban have agreed to soon surrender this northern Afghanistan city, intense fighting raged between the two sides along the front lines. After a meeting with a Taliban leader in Mazar-e Sharif, a top Northern Alliance commander said that Taliban fighters -- surrounded in this city by Northern Alliance troops -- agreed to lay down their arms Sunday. The surrender would give the Northern Alliance control of northern Afghanistan. But in Konduz, where fierce battles raged, Northern Alliance fighters expressed doubt the surrender would happen, particularly since thousands of non-Afghan Taliban fighters face trial as war criminals. And at the same time Northern Alliance commander Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostum and Gen. Mullah Faizal, the Taliban assistant defense minister in Konduz, met in Mazar-e Sharif, chaotic fighting broke out on the eastern side of Konduz province when Northern Alliance forces began a push west. Tanks, small arms, rockets and grenade rocket launchers were fired in and around villages in the Konduz area. Hundreds of Northern Alliances troops, along with tanks, raced to the front amid an intensive artillery attack on Taliban positions. In Jalalabad in eastern Afghanistan, coalition military jets were heard and four loud explosions were seen in a village to the southeast, an indication of bombing in the area. Dostum said both the Afghan fighters and the so-called "foreign" fighters in the Konduz -- mostly Arabs, Chechens, Pakistanis and Uzbeks -- will surrender. The Taliban troops will put down their weapons and give themselves up to Northern Alliance forces, said Dostum, who also said he planned to go to Konduz Saturday with 5,000 troops to oversee the surrender. Fighters who surrender will be taken to Mazar-e Sharif, Dostum said, where the Afghan fighters will be allowed to return home and the foreign fighters will be arrested and tried according the laws of the Islamic state of Afghanistan. The Northern Alliance will fight any Taliban fighters who do not surrender, Dostum said. The United States has said it does not want any of the Taliban's international volunteers or suspected terrorists to be allowed to return to their home countries. In talks Wednesday, Faizel said all the Taliban fighters in Konduz -- including the hard-line "foreign fighters" -- would no longer fight for Konduz, the last city still under Taliban control in northern Afghanistan. For more than a week, the Northern Alliance has alleged that al Qaeda fighters and the non-Afghan troops fighting with the Taliban in Konduz have been killing local Taliban fighters who want to defect or surrender to the Northern Alliance. photo Armor has been in use on both sides of the conflict The city has been the scene of heavy fighting in recent days, and many pro-Taliban fighters have pledged to fight until death there. The United States intensified its air campaign in the region in recent weeks. Dostum also said he is negotiating with other officials about other Taliban-controlled areas in Afghanistan, including the southern stronghold of Kandahar, the Taliban's religious headquarters. He did not specify what officials he is in contact with. With Taliban forces pushed into southern Afghanistan under relentless attacks from Britain and the United States in support of the Northern Alliance, Pakistan moved to sever its ties with the embattled rulers. Pakistan, until Thursday the only country that still maintained diplomatic relations with the Taliban, ordered the Afghans to close their embassy in Islamabad and vacate the country. Diplomats began leaving Thursday afternoon, telling reporters they were going home to Kandahar. Taliban leaders there declared it their religious duty Wednesday to fight for the southern city, where the fundamentalist movement began its systematic takeover of Afghanistan after the fall of the Soviet-backed communist regime in 1989. Syed Tayyad Agha, the personal secretary to Taliban leader Mullah Mohammad Omar, said the Taliban had sufficient forces to defend the area around Kandahar. A source close to the Taliban administrator in Kandahar said there is pressure from al Qaeda on local Afghan Taliban fighters to stay loyal and not surrender. The same source also said there is a flow of Taliban fighters heading south, starting to mass in and around Kandahar, a move that could embolden the hard-line, non-Afghan Taliban fighters in the city. Leaders of Pashtun tribes, however, told CNN Taliban fighters around Kandahar were talking with tribal leaders about defecting. Meanwhile, in Maidanshar, a town west of Kabul, the Northern Alliance is reporting fighting between troops under the command of a former Taliban commander and local residents. Previously, there had been talks between the commander and the Northern Alliance with the assistance of elders in the town. 
The former king of Afghanistan has returned to his home country and a red carpet welcome after 29 years in exile. The Italian military aircraft carrying Mohammad Zahir Shah touched down amid tight security at Bagram airbase outside Kabul shortly before midday local time Thursday. The former king is regarded by many Afghans as a father figure for the war-ravaged nation, with his return seen as part of the healing process that will bring a sense of normalcy back to Afghanistan. Zahir Shah was accompanied on his return by Afghanistan's interim leader, Hamid Karzai, and six Afghan Cabinet ministers who traveled to Rome to escort him back to Kabul. His return has been postponed twice amid reports of a plot to assassinate him, and security within Afghanistan has been beefed up in anticipation of his arrival. A senior U.S. official said earlier this week that there were no specific threats against the monarch. However, as a precaution, a personal bodyguard corps has been trained in Kabul by Swedish peacekeepers, and security for the villa where Zahir Shah will live has been reinforced, with the streets around it blocked off. For many Afghans, the former king's return is a positive sign following years of brutal rule under the Taliban. "His presence there, I'm sure, will add to stability and peace in Afghanistan," Karzai said before the king's departure. 'Sense of unity' Afghan Foreign Minister Abdullah Abdullah said, "It is, first of all, a sign of returning to the normal situation. It is a sign of normalcy. It is also important in the sense of national unity, which is much needed nowadays in Afghanistan, perhaps more than any other time." Many Afghans have been eagerly awaiting Zahir Shah's return Many Afghans have been eagerly awaiting Zahir Shah's return The king will live in a well protected two-story house in Kabul, and a battalion of Italian paramilitary police will be in charge of his security detail for the next few months. Eventually, specially trained Afghan guards will take over the security detail. Shah, who was deposed in 1973 by his cousin, will lead a "Loya Jirga," or grand assembly, for 18 months beginning in June. During that time, the Loya Jirga will decide on the shape of the country's new government. 'Sadness' In a March CNN interview, the 87-year-old former monarch said he wants to bring peace and democracy to his country and is counting the hours until he is able to see his homeland and people again. "I go back with eagerness. I go back with happiness and joy," he said. "But also I have sadness in my heart, because on the one hand, I am very glad to see once again my people and my homeland. On the other hand, I know the changes that have taken place, the mayhem and the destruction, and that makes it sad." He said in the past he was afraid his return could cause "more bloodshed," but now the climate has changed. "I never wanted to impose myself on the Afghan people. I awaited them to give the signal that they are ready to accept me to go back, and I am ready to go back," the king said. "I want to spend the last remaining years, the few years that I have left in front of me, at the service of my people and of my country." 