With this update, the Inspiron 8200 is one of the best selling notebooks currently available. This update involves a second Inspiron 8200 notebook purchased in early October. For whatever inexplicable reason, my father wanted to upgrade his notebook (a Inspiron 4100 which is now in my possession) so with the past experience our family has had with Dell computers, it was natural for us to stick with Dell. The Inspiron 8200 was just released and the prices were very reasonable (especially with a mail-in rebate, coupon, free shipping, and free DVD/CD-RW upgrade!). I was looking to upgrade my desktop to a permanent home notebook solution and went with the Toshiba Satellite 5105-S607 instead. So my major points of reference are from the ownership of a Dell Inspiron 4100, Inspiron 8000, Toshiba Satellite 2805, and a Satellite 5105-S607 as well as all the notebooks I troubleshoot for friends and co-workers. This first Inspiron was purchased in March 2002. The second Inspiron 8200 was purchased in early October 2002. Short Take The Inspiron 8200 is a great value overall with most of the features needs to make it a desktop replacement. It features some of the latest technology in computers such as DDR memory with a 400MHz Front Side Bus and the latest in power saving technologies from Intel. Although the Pentium 4 chip pales against the raw power of a similarly powered AMD Athlon XP Mobile chipset, the majority of users are unlikely to notice this. Dell has kept this model fresh by updating the options available on the notebook... improved video cards, improved screens, and the such make large differences in the overall performance of the notebook. With the promotions that Dell often has and the long warranty options for the notebook (although Dell customer service is just average these days), the Inspiron can even be bought at almost budget prices. I will note both Inspiron 8200s in my possession... Pros: 1) Options galore 2) Various Promotions by Dell can make the notebook extremely cheap 3) Excellent screen options... all the way to UXGA Ultrasharp option 4) Powerful graphic card options 5) Dual battery options 6) Long battery life with dual battery options (up to 6 hours depending on use and configuration of notebook) 7) Versatile 2nd drive bay (can accept second battery) 8) Good number of ports included and 2 USB 9) Network and Modem ports built in 10) Long warranty options Cons: 1) Weight is a factor 2) Dell notebook quality has worsened a bit... case feels a bit cheaper from the 2nd Inspiron 8200 from my first one. 3) lack of high speed ports like USB 2.0 (has FireWire/IE1394 port but the mini-connector end) 4) Other companies offer extras like built in memory stick, Secure Digital/MMC card, or SmartMedia reader 5) Pentium 4-M processor overall is weaker/slower than Pentium 3-M and Athlon XP Mobile in many applications. 1.6GHz P4-M is slower than 1.2GHz P3-M except for applications made specifically with the P4 architecture in mind (there isn't alot out there yet). Athlon XP 1600 definitely outperforms the P4-M 1.6GHz. 6) Dell customer service is hit or miss. Overall, the customer service is just average these days. Same old, Same old... First Impressions out of the box I had a basic idea what the notebook would look like... I mean, I just had to look at my Inspiron 8000 and then I knew what the 8200 would look like. So no surprises there... the 8200 looks like every other notebook in the 8000 series lineup. You can barely tell the difference... in that way, the notebook looks a bit bland now. Sure you can customize the handrests and the top part of the notebook with colored plates... but big deals these days. The nice thing about having the similar design is that you can interchange parts between the 8000, 8100, and 8200 notebooks. Batteries, drives, and the such. So if you have a few accessories from an older 8000 or 8100, it is extremely likely to be compatible with the 8200. At least it saves costs in upgrading from an older Inspiron 8x00 series notebook. The beast inside... (Some technical details) However, the similarities between the 8200 and 8100 and 8000 end there since the 8200 innards are an entirely different beast! The 8200 sports the Pentium 4 Mobile processor. This badboy processor starts with numbers of 1.7 GHz now. The RAM is based on PC266 DDR SODIMM RAM boards on a 400MHz FSB so you have much faster memory than the older Inspiron 8000/8100s. Video options include the 64MB GeForce4 440 Go chipsets and the latest Radeon 9000 Mobile chip. There is a newer control chipset (815MP as per Dell website... PCMagazine.com says it's the 845MP chipset) inside the 8200 that helps unlock the true potential of the P4 Mobile SpeedStep (what helps the P4 Mobile conserve battery power)... to even gain a bit of battery life over the 8000 and 8100 notebooks despite a more powerful processor and graphics chip. The purchased configuration First Notebook Pentium 4-M 1.6 GHz processor 128 MB of PC266 DDR SoDIMMs (upgradable to 1 GB) nVidia GeForce4 440 Go 64MB graphics chip 15 inch UltraSharp UXGA monitor (1600x1400 with brighter screen than original UXGA screen) 30 GB 4200rpm Hard Drive DVD/CD-RW combo drive (8x DVD and 8x/4x/24x CD-RW) Integrated 56k modem and 10/100 Ethernet port Windows XP Home and MS Works 1 year Mail-In customer support(the cheapest option!) Cost: $2200 in March 2002 Second notebook Pentium 4-M 1.8GHz processor 384 MB of RAM 40GB 5400rpm Hard Drive (higher rpms the better... 5400 is max for notebooks) ATI Radeon 9000 graphics chip (better than GeForce4 Go 440 and 460 in my opinion) 15 inch UXGA screen (not UltraSharp option) DVD/CD-RW drive (8x DVD 24x/8x/24x CD-RW) 56K modem and 10/100 Ethernet port built in Extra battery and nylon case Win XP home and MS Works 3 yr Mail-In customer support with Complete Care protection Cost: $1952 bought in October 2002 The 8200 Inspiron is a three spindle design notebook. You can have up to three drives on this computer. A hard drive and two optical drives. One optical drive can be swapped with a second battery to extend battery life to about 5 even up to 6 hours. Nice part about this design is that you still have an optical drive installed on the notebook for portable DVD viewing :) Performance What do you expect? The 8200 as a whole blows away any PIII-M notebook out there quite easily. You will approach desktop Pentium 4 performance... but not quite reach it. Adding the GeForce4 440 Go 64MB graphics chip helps a great deal as well. The new Radeon 9000 graphics chip absolutely makes this computer rock. You're not going to worry when you play graphically intensive games and should have few problems with PhotoShop and CAD programs as well. The GeForce4 440 chip seems stable with Windows XP unlike the reports of GeForce2Go and Windows XP having difficulties working together. The ATI has been perfectly stable so far... I would dare say even more stable than the GeForce4 440 Go chip. There is no surprise in the performance increase considering the faster processor, the faster memory, and the faster 400MHz bus on the motherboard (i.e. how fast components of the computer can transmit data to each other). All of these factors have been significantly increased in the 8200 from the 8100, and you'll notice the difference! Note that if you compare a Pentium III-M processor against the Pentium-4 processor, the 1.2GHz P3-M will beat the 1.6GHz and even 1.7GHz P4-M processor. The other enhancements to the 8200 notebook account for the superiority against most other Pentium 3-M notebooks. The GeForce4 440 Go chipset is blazingly fast against desktop standards. I would say that it performed as good as the original desktop GeForce3 card in a desktop computer. Games like Quake and Max Payne ran at extremely high framerates (when connected to a regular computer monitor). Graphics were crisp, clean, and detailed. High resolutions were handled rather easily by the GeForce4 Go chip. It may have beat out my ATI Radeon Mobility 7500 chip on my Inspiron 4100 notebook... but this isn't a fair comparison. The Radeon 9000 chipset seems more on par with the low and medium end desktop GeForce 4 chipsets... talk about power! The latest screen technology (the UltraSharp UXGA TFT screen) gives the same resolution as the older UXGA 15inch screen but the brightness of the screen is extremely noticable. You can see the screen at all types of crazy angles and never have to strain your eyes. Fine details are maintained throughout with excellent colour reproduction and vivid colour displays. This is easily the best notebook screen I've seen to date. I have no complaints about the UltraSharp UXGA screen on the 8200. The regular UXGA screen is no slouch either... it is not as bright and the angle of viewing the screen is considerably smaller (at best 120 degrees from side to side versus 160-180 on the UltraSharp). If you're going to be directly infront of the notebook at all times (and other people aren't looking over your shoulder or from the side) the UXGA screen is just fine. The least expensive screen is the SXGA screen. The difference can be up to $150 from SXGA to Enhanced UXGA! DVD playback was also very good. DVD playback of the first 8200 notebook is worse than my Dell Inspiron 4100 with the ATI Radeon 7500 graphics chip. DVD playback of the Radeon 9000 equiped 8200 is as good or better than my 4100 notebook. Gone are the days of separation of colors (like flesh tones) that I noticed with the GeForce2Go equipped notebooks. Playback is displayed in vivid and accurate color although some scenes seem a bit darker than they should be. No dropped frames... no stutters... no stoppage of playback. The excellent graphics transferred to monitors and TVs unblemished through the monitor port or the S-Video port. The Radeon 9000 equiped notebook was an excellent DVD playback solution. Battery life on the 8200 is decent. The first notebook runs about 2 1/2 hours without difficulty. Installing the second battery gave me 5-5 1/2 hours of uptime. That's not bad at all and the 8200 seemed to squeak out just a little more uptime than the 8000 notebook in the house. CNet reports that the 8200 beats out the 8100 notebook in battery tests as well... I can't verify that though. The increased battery life is likely due to the P4-M processor, the 845MP control chipset, and the enhancements to the GeForce4 Go ability to monitor and limit its own power use. Now believe it or not... my second 8200 system achieved better battery times than the first 8200! I actually got closer to 3 hours on one battery and nearly 6 hour on two! Heck, you're getting a more powerful system on the same battery power running the Inspiron 8000 and 8100. That's pretty good! Other Details The 8200 is a bulky notebook... not surprising considering where the basic design originated from. The notebook has dimensions of 1.75(H) x 13.03(W) x 10.8(D) with a base weight of 7.9lbs (and that assumes both bays are occupied). At least you get lots of ports on this notebook. You get a parallel port, serial port, infrared transmitter and receiver, external monitor connection, S-Video port, microphone jack, headphone/line out jack, line in jack, PS/2 port, 2 USB 1.1 ports, 1 Firewire port, S/PDIF jack, and a connection for the advanced port replicator. You also get 1 Type III PCMCIA slot (or 2 Type II PCMCIA slots). I do wish that the notebook had some USB 2.0 ports and/or Firewire ports. Like all of Dell's notebooks, you have tons of options when you are purchasing your notebook. I'd be careful to know what you can install yourself since Dell charges full retail price on these components. If you can install the item yourself, buy it yourself at a reputable and cheaper store. Memory is a prime example of this... a 128MB upgrade to a total of 256MB of memory will cost you $75! A 266MHz 256MB SoDIMM board in the open market costs about $80! Heck, Dell sells the 256MB SoDIMM board on their own website for $90-100... getting you a total of 384MB of RAM on your computer (you have to put 128MB of memory on the notebook... that's the lowest option). I used to recommend Crucial memory since it is reliable, but it is fairly expensive... shop around first. Dell's notebooks have always had solid keyboards... the 8200 sticks to this tradition. I can type quickly and easily on the 8200 keyboard... there is a good tactile feel and good resistance. Again, like all recent Dell's notebooks, there are two pointing devices. A touchpad and the tiny eraser point in the middle of the keyboard. Both are very responsive and accurate. Sound is still a weak point in the 8200. The Toshiba laptop still mops up the floor in the sound department with their notebooks' subwoofer setup. The 8200 has tinny sound like many laptops do. Get external speakers if you want quality sound or look into the Extigy solution by Creative. The overall quality of the casing feels cheaper than the earlier Inspirons like the 8000 and 4000 series notebooks. The 8200 casing doesn't give you the confidence that it could survive a good blow... my second 8200s actually feels cheaper than the first (Thank goodness I got the CompleteCare warranty!). Get a good case for this thing... I rather not take the risk. Another problem is Dell's declining Customer Service... it can range from good to downright horrible at any given time of the day. However, I doubt that the other major notebook manufacturers are much better than Dell in this department. At least you have the option on the length of the warranty and options. Read my latest notebook reviews (Inspiron 4150 and 2650 reviews for details on customer service issues). You can get a warranty for up to 4 years worth. The CompleteCare option allows you to put more abuse on the notebook with a guarantee of repair for certain types of damage... falls, coffee spills, and the such are now covered with the CompleteCare option. Hitting the computer with a hammer or running it over with a car are still not covered. I feel this notebook is a bit noisier than others. There are multiple fans running to keep the system and components cool. These same fans are loud enough to drown out low sounds from the integrated speakers. Heat production is an issue with this computer, but it doesn't seem to run extremely hot. It was somewhat comfortable on my lap for two hours or so. The smaller Pentium 4 chips don't release the massive amount of heat the P3-Ms did. Final Thoughts The 8200 is a solid and dependable notebook... but it isn't the best value or the best performer. It even doesn't offer the most features possible on a notebook. You kind of get the feeling that the 8200 is 8100 with a few new parts. Regardless, the notebook is worth considering if you want a dependable notebook. I'd recommend the notebook but warn that you can find just as good or better notebooks from other companies as well. We'll see where Dell ends up with the Pentium 4 Mobile processor. There are other options to consider as well. There are mobile Athlon 4 processors as well which deliver good performance for a better price. On top of that, a Pentium III-M notebook will cost somewhat less and offer plenty of power for the average user... if a Pentium 3-M notebook had the same options and motherboard architecture, I would recommend the P3-M notebook over the P4-M notebook! So you have to figure out what you want from your notebook computer. The 8200 is a solid performer but there are plenty of options out there and there are better performing Pentium 4-M notebooks going against Dell's 8200. I also want to note that I also bought a HP ZE1201 notebook for $650 that contained a Mobile Athlon XP 1500 processor (1.3GHz processor) with 512MB PC133 SoDIMM memory, 20GB 4200rpm Hard Drive, integrated graphics card, and SXGA 14 inch screen... the performance of this notebook was excellent and shows the differences in processors and the overall architecture of the notebook. The Mobile Athlon XP is extremely powerful but the motherboard and graphic options available to Pentium 4-M notebooks give certain advantages than even the Mobile Athlon XP can't overcome... yet! Something to note is the upcoming Banias processor in 2003. The Banias is Intel's mobile power saving chipsets I believe based off a radically modified Pentium 4 core. Whether this will affect the P4-M since the Banias is supposedly slated for an early 2003 release. Note that the Banias will be released at slower speeds than the P4-M chips but will use significantly less power... supposedly only a Watt of power by some reports! I'll believe it when I see it! If you've been reading my notebook reviews... I got rid of the KDS Valiant notebook and the Toshiba Satellite S507 for this Radeon 9000 equipped Inspiron 8200 notebook. The Toshiba went to my brother and the KDS to a friend as a present. I currently have 3 notebooks at this time... the HP ZE1201 notebook (because of the price I paid for it... this is my abuse notebook... or it gets taken by girlfriend for her stuff), the Dell Inspiron 4100 notebook (I love this one), and the Inspiron 8200 with Radeon 9000 graphics chip. My parents still have the Inspiron 8200 with GeForce4 440 Go chipset from March 2002. Read my other reviews through the menus on my profile page These include the following notebooks: Dell Inspiron 4100 Dell Inspiron 8100 Dell Inspiron 4000 Dell Inspiron 8000 Toshiba Satellite 5005-S504 Toshiba Satellite 5005-S507 KDS PIII notebook Happy Notebook Shopping!
This being my first laptop, I have no real comparison I can make as far as laptops themselves go, but I will just talk about it as far as computing power. Note: I got this computer through school as it's part of my program, so I can't give a price on it, and it has been slightly configured for what we need so what you normally get from Dell may be slightly different. Out of the box, the laptop came with nearly everything I would need in order to get going right away. A built in battery, a plug-in adapter and Windows XP Home edition already installed. Processor The configuration we got included a Pentium 4 running at 1.6 GHz. This thing seriously blazes along. I've run some pretty graphic intensive games on it, and it hasn't even flinched. At the same time, I'm a programmer and it's calculating speed blows my mind at times. Memory It came with 256Mb of RAM which I have subsequently upgraded to 512Mb. I did notice that the RAM got overworked at 256 with some of my games, but that's about it. There are two DIMM PC2100 slots in the laptop, but the max you can get in there with official DELL memory is 512 as they only sell sticks of 256MB. I haven't had any problems at all since I upgraded. Hard Drive Came with a 40Gb hard drive. I feel like I have more room on this thing than I'll ever need, as I've filled it with everything I have, and I still have only used around 10Gb. Drives This is the beautiful part. Aside from the 1.44" floppy drive on the front, it comes with a combo DVD/CD-RW drive as well. Video Card Another nice thing about the Inspiron 8200, is that mine came with a GeForce4 440 Go card in it. They come in both the 32Mb and 64Mb variety. Sound Card Yeah, well, sound cards on a laptop aren't a huge thing as far as I know, and this one isn't anything great. It's a Cirrus Logic/Crystal CS4205. Never heard of it before. Sounds fine though, even though the speakers on a laptop aren't great to begin with either. Display The display is beautiful. It's 15" which is larger than most laptops I've seen before. When you have the power adapter plugged in to improve the brightness, it's better than most CRT monitors for desktops. The default resolution when it shipped was 1400 x 1050, showing you the kind of power this thing has. Communications 56K modem, 10/100 Ethernet connection, and Wi-Fi wireless support Ports Holy crap, does thing thing have a ton of ports. Here we go: 9-pin serial, 25-hole parallel, 15-hole video connector for external monitor, line in/out sterer connections, headphone port, mic port, PS/2 port for mouse/keyboard, 2 USB ports, an infrared sensor, S-video TV-out to hook up to a TV, RJ-11 Modem port, RJ-45 Network adapter, and IEEE 1394 (Firewire) port. Phew. Battery I've found that the battery tends to last between 2 and 3 hours, depending on whether I'm playing games or programming, with games draining it faster. It takes an hour or so to recharge with the computer on, and I haven't noticed how long it takes with the computer off. Keyboard One of the things I normally hate about laptops are the squished little keyboards. Seeing as how the Inspiron 8200 has a 15" display, it means the bottom half of the laptop is larger as well, giving more room for the keyboard, and it now seems easier to type on than a normal keyboard for me. I still hate not having a normal NumPad, but you make do. Mouse, Trackpad, blah blah blah I hate these things. First thing I did was go out and buy a mouse to use exclusively with the laptop. I absolutely detest touchpads, and I'll never touch this thing. I'm sure it works the same as most. I don't like the little Track Stick thing in the middle of the keyboard much either, although this one is better than most I've seen. It's textured so your finger tends to stick to it instead of constantly sliding off. It's also more accurate than most I've seen. The one thing that really sucks, is that both the Track Stick and Touchpad have their own set of mouse buttons. What's bad about this is the fact that the Touchpad ones are right beside the palm rests, and you have a tendency to push them with your palm when you use the Shift key and move one hand over to the other side of the keyboard. It's annoying. Software Honestly, I was kind of disappointed with the software that came with it, but it may be due to the configuration I get from school. I got the Windows XP Home (Can't even give me Professional), WinDVD, Easy CD Creator, and not a whole lot else other than that. No Office or Works programs, though I've heard that's an option you can add on. It did come with MicroSoft Visual Studio, but that's a programming suite that we got for school. Expansion It comes with 2 PCM expansion slots, which as far as I know, are basically the laptop equivalent of PCI slots. Enough Spec Crap That's the technical jibber-jabber. What do I really think of this laptop? I love it. Plain and simple. It worked perfectly right out of the box, and there weren't a whole lot of modifications I had to make to it. I did order the extra memory and buy the mouse, but that's just personal preference. My favorite parts? The quality of the video card/display, and the ease of the keyboard. The fast processor and combo drive are also nice as well. What I don't like? Not much. Other than the touch pad/ track stick crap, but that's standard on a laptop so there's no real getting around it. It is a little heavier than other laptops I've picked up, but it's not really a big complaint. The only contact I've had with tech support so far was in ordering the new RAM and that was extremely easy. I've heard their tech support is pretty good, and they gave us a pretty exhaustive warranty that covers nearly everything for the next 3 years or so I believe The Dell Inspiron 8200 is a powerful, extremely useful laptop, that gives you nearly everything you could want in a laptop. They have a port for nearly every use you could think of. I have all kinds of things hooked up to mine right now, and I still have lots of options left over to further add to it.I'd recommend this to anyone looking for some real processing power in their laptop, especially for more graphically-intensive applications. It may be a little too much for the casual user though.
As announced recently by Intel, they've just released their Mobile Pentium 4 for those that are really demanding greater power than ever before. But for those who are extra power hungry (not electrically), the Pentium 4-M processor is the right choice though. My Inspiron 8200 When I recently ordered an Inspiron 8200 out of the Dell website, I ordered it through this configuration: Intel Pentium 4-m 1.7GHz 15" UXGA screen 256MB DDR-SDRAM (1 piece) 30GB Hard Drive 8x CD-RW/DVD combo drive (Free Upgrade from DVD ROM) 32MB DDR NVidia 4x AGP 56K v.92 modem & 10/100 NIC Internal Wireless antenna Wi-Fi certified MS Works Suite 2nd Battery 3 year warranty with complete care and telephone support. Free Quicken Suite (Tax Software) Total Price: $2200 Processors and Memory The Inspiron 8200 features an Intel Pentium 4-m processor with speeds of up to 2.2GHz. With those processor speeds, you can easily create and store your imaginations such as digital pictures, digital video, digital audio and many more. But laptops in general shouldn't be used for heavy graphics work, as it may hog battery life and cause the lifespan of the laptop to contract. As far as memory goes, the Inspiron 8200 features many memory options, starting from 256MB DDR SDRAM to 1GB of DDR SDRAM through the available 2 SODIMM slots. But I would hang around for a period of time to upgrade the memory by purchasing crucial SODIMM modules. With the 845MP chipset, it allows the processor to operate at a 400MHz bus speed, capable of running your processor demanding applications. Yet conserving battery power, through the Speed Step technology in the Pentium 4-m processor. How does the new processor fare? Currently the Intel Pentium 4-m is performing much better than at the time of its introduction back in March, 2002. Where processor freezing and slowing down due to memory doesn't really exist. With such better power right now, the right time to buy the Pentium 4-m laptop is basically right now. Storage For mass storage, the Inspiron 8200 features a 30GB to 60GB hard drive for storing your OS, 3rd party software, productivity software and many more, including your digital multimedia files. Plus there is a wide variety of optical storage solutions offered by the Inspiron 8200. With one fixed drive bay for your DVD-ROM for full-length DVD movies or have a CD-RW for backing up your hard drive, creating your own CDs and many more. But with a CD-RW/DVD combo drive, you can even combine the best of both drives into just one bay. This means, with the Inspiron 8200, like the Inspiron 8000 or 8100; it allows you to place another battery into the modular bay for extended DVD movies, without worrying about the battery running out until the next charge. However with Sony and Toshiba beginning to introduce DVD ( and/or -)RW drives into their notebooks, I do really hope that Dell will offer it soon to the potential Inspiron 8200 buyers, but at a price. With the modular bay in front of the laptop, you can place an extra battery, house your floppy drive, place a spare hard drive or even plug in a hollow travel lite module. With all those options, the possibilities are endless. But you may want to watch out for something like a digital media reader for the modular bay such as Smart Media, Compact Flash, Secure Digital, Multimedia Card and many more possibilities. Display The Inspiron 8200 features a 15" TFT screen with 3 choices of resolutions. You have a choice of SXGA , UXGA or Enhanced UXGA (Dell UltraSharp). With the UltraSharp screen, you can view your laptop screen at a wider angle than the basic UXGA screen; it even features a greater contrast ratio for a much bigger difference when you're viewing the screen for prolonged periods. With the SXGA or UXGA coupled with the 32MB GeForce 2, it delivers stunning graphics through a standard monitor and with the DVD playback on the laptop screen, it's superb compared to many of the middling laptops, not completely cutting edge. But for real cutting graphics for the Inspiron 8200, the 64MB GeForce4 440 Go video card combined with the Enhanced UXGA screen, you're putting yourself into the theatre seat and into the arcade without actually being there. But of course, regardless of any screen or video card choice offered, all options are excellent for any user, depending on how demanding they're with the graphics in multimedia. With the S-video output, you can even place your laptop screen on a projector by plugging the projector to the S-video port. Or you could even hook this to the TV for full screen DVD movies as well. Peripheral Connection The Inspiron 8200 features plenty of ports for peripheral connection. It comes with the printer port, video port, serial port, mouse or keyboard port, headphone or speaker jack, microphone jack, audio line in, infrared port for your printer and infrared compliant devices, S-video output, 2 USB ports, S/PDIF port for your digital audio and one iLink or Firewire port for those digital camcorders and high speed devices. With the 2 PC card slots (one Type III PC card only), you can add your wireless network antenna, additional interface ports, digital media readers and many more. For communications, the Inspiron 8200 features a 56K v.92 modem for your faxes and going on the Internet. Along with the integrated Ethernet card, you can easily hook the Inspiron 8200 to a network without worrying about buying a separate adapter for that purpose or even go on high speed Internet service. Plus, with the free short-term Internet service options provided by Dell, you can easily even go online. If you do want to have a superior audio experience, I suggest hooking external speakers for the laptop, as it doesn't feature too much bass for the speakers on the side of each Inspiron 8200 laptop. Battery As far as power goes, with the laptop's battery time of around 2.5 hours with one battery, it isn't the longest battery life available out there, but it's sufficient for most DVD videos in just one battery. Unlike the Inspiron 4100, which you do have to pop out the modular optical drive or floppy drive to achieve a longer battery life, you don't have to with the Inspiron 8200, as the laptop also features a fixed bay along with a modular bay. With a second battery, the laptop can easily double the battery life, making the laptop capable of additional productivity after a full length DVD movie. The battery life seems to be justified to be shorter than the Inspiron 4100 series, is because of the larger screen. Plus with the Speed Step technology, it allows the user to maximize battery life when the laptop isn't operating processor-demanding applications. However due to the overheating of the Intel Pentium 4-m processors, the battery life is significantly cut to 2.5 hours as well as the power robbing processor. Other features The keyboard is full sized and it types very smoothly. With my typing speed of about 65 wpm, I can feel the smoothness all the way through the process. With the pointing device, you have 2 choices with the laptop, which is ideal for different users. With either an eraser head mouse or touch pad, no one needs to really feel confined to just one pointing device in many other laptops. I personally prefer the touch pad and it feels very smooth, like the other Dell laptops that I've used. But from time to time, I do switch to the eraser head though. For software, there isn't much to talk about though. But, the selection included the Microsoft Works Suite or Microsoft Office depending on the user preference. But it really is just productivity software. They do feature an Anti-Virus software, but it only lasts for a short 90 days for a trial. Currently the operating system availability includes the Windows XP Home or Professional. With the quality of support deteriorating on the vendor, it means that Dell may not be worth it for some users at all. But the support is better than most laptop vendors out there and it provides many flexible options for warranty and support. But for laptops, try to buy extra warranty, as laptop repairs are much more expensive than desktops; even if it does mean the upgrade is a whole lot more money. With the laptop weight of well over 8 lbs. (with DVD/CD-RW and Floppy Drive), this laptop is considered heavy and difficult to carry. But it isn't as cumbersome as the Toshiba's 1900 series or the 5000 series laptops though. With the thickness of 1.75", it isn't a thin laptop either, but still better than the Toshiba 5105-S607 (1.8" thick) or the Toshiba 1905-S277 (almost 2.0" thick). Recommendation Since the Pentium 4-m processors have gone through a significant improvement since introduction, I would not find myself too hard to recommend the Dell Inspiron 8200. So this means that if you happen to have an Intel Pentium 3-m or Late Production Intel Pentium 3 (not m) laptops, stay with those laptops and it'll last you at least a couple of good years. This is what I would like to see from Dell for this and the Inspiron 4150: Digital Media Writer/Reader: Type 2 Compact Flash, Memory Stick, Secure Digial & Multimedia Card, Smart Media (They can omit Smart Media, since SD & MMC is gradually taking over Smart Media) DVD( and/or -)RW drive.
I purchased the Dell Inspiron 8200 about 2 months ago to replace my aging Inspiron 4000. The specs. Pentium 4M 1.8 , 30GB Hard drive , ATI Radeon 9000 64MB video card , 15" 1400X1050 screen , 320MB ram , CDRW/DVD combo. All of the standard ports are present , including firewire , 2 USB ports , 2 PC card ports , Infrared port. Those specs certainly make it a powerhouse machine by laptop standards but it was surprisingly cheap. The only options I chose was the ATI Radeon 9000 card over the standard G force 32MB card. Hint... Always pick the best video card option because it is not hard to predict that future softwares will become very graphical in nature to attract new users and a powerhouse video card with lots of video ram will greatly extend the useful life of your laptop when running future applications. Workmanship and built quality. One word describes this , Horrible. Compared to other brands the Inspiron 8200 will look like a plasticy pile of junk. The plastic casing feels like a kids toy with uneven gaps and seams, and many creaking sounds are audible when moving the machine around. I give it the lowest marks possible when it comes to workmanship. That said , the workmanship is no less than any models from the 4xxx , 8xxx series. Hopefully Dell will improved this in their next model lines because with doubt, quality is the major downfall to the Dells. Performance I think this is the thing that is of most interest to new users. A knowledgeable person only needs to look to the specifications to have a good idea of it's performance. Dell loads plenty of unneeded and bloated software , much of it running in the background, so even an initial hands on experience won't show it's true potential. Unfortunately I only have my old Inspiron 4000 to compare so I can only say , the Inspiron 8200 is much, much faster. The graphics capabilities are outstanding for a laptop of this class. This is the probably the perfect machine for gamers. Battery life is about 2 hours during light use but this will drop dramatically when doing intensive tasks. Audio Two reasonably powerful speaker grills protrude on the sides producing a deep and rich sound that is surprisingly good for a laptop. I give the Inspiron 8200 high marks for it’s audio quality and volume. Heat and noise The fan is reasonably quiet at low speeds but cycles on and off every 5 minutes, even when the CPU is idling so this tells you that it is a very hot running machine. It literally does heat up the room judging by the hot air coming from the fan vents. According to Fangui (www.diefer.de ) temperature monitor the 8200 runs on average , 20 degrees hotter than the Inspiron 4000 .The fan on my Inspiron 4000 hardly ever came on. At high speeds the fan is very loud but fortunately it only shifts to high when playing games or other CPU intensive tasks. Ergonomics The keyboard feels cheap just as it was on the Inspiron 4000 but the keys are bigger and more solid in feel which makes for easier and more accurate typing. The key travel seems just about right but the keys feel wobbly and make a cheap sound when typing. This I can forgive considering the price but long term reliability of the keyboard is questionable. The touchpad is lousy. This model uses the ALPS instead of the much superior Synaptics used on other model. Despite lacking in features, the mouse pointer is not accurate and jerky which makes it very difficult to navigate menus. Only consider this model if you intend to always use an external mouse. The screen is bright and satisfying graphically but the text size is too small and I find myself straining to read small text. My eyes are reasonably good so if you have vision problems then it is best to choose a model with a lower resolution. Because of the weight and heat generated this does not make for a good machine to use on your lap. Warranty The old Inspiron 4000 came with a 1 year on-site warranty standard but now Dell only offers a 1 year mail in warranty with on-site service as extra. I would like to recommend the on-site but it is too expensive because Dell forces you to take 3 years. Software Nothing special here. Microsoft works suite, Windows XP home, and other miscellaneous software that is not very useful. Conclusion The main advantage of the Inspiron 8200 is that you get a lot of bang for the buck, along with a good name standing behind the warranty. It’s much cheaper than any comparable model out there. Performance is on par with the most expensive models. The main disadvantage is quality compared to other brands, using Toshiba as an example is like comparing Chevy to BMW . Weight and size is another big disadvantage and is the main reason why I recently returned the Inspiron 8200 and ordered an Inspiron 600m which is a newer model using the new Centrino technology. I will write a review on the 600m when it arrives.
As a previous owner of a Toshiba P4 notebook (the 5105-S607, which I also covered here at Epinions), you will likely see a fair amount of comparison between this Dell 8200 and my previous machine. First of all, my needs. I used to be the kind of person who had a built-to-the-balls desktop machine complete with the fastest video and CPU available, with the highest end monitor I could find. Then I picked up a Toshiba notebook and started doing work while sitting on the bus, laying in bed, out and about, etc. This became a priceless thing for me, since I was no longer limited to any given place to do heavy-duty computing, or even gaming. The newest P4 desktop replacement notebooks with cutting edge 3D video truly eliminate the gap between desktop computing and portability. Ultimately, what I wanted in a notebook was a FAST cpu, and no-excuses gaming while on the road. One of the things that struck me as a "nice to have" for a notebook is the ability to *upgrade your video card*. This is one of the things that's possible with the Dell that (as far as I know) isn't possible with any other notebook. As a matter of fact, you can swap out just about ANY component in the Dell, who even give you the documentation on how to do so. (Dell owners: http://docs.us.dell.com/docs/systems/ins8200/) My ordering experience was as good as can be expected. When ordering your Dell Inspiron, you'll be given a HUGE amount of choices as to what you want in your PC. I opted for the fastest/best I could find, a 2.2ghz Pentium 4-M, the 15" Ultra-sharp UXGA 1600x1200 display, the Radeon Mobility 9000 graphics card (which I had my doubts about), and the 40GB 5400RPM Hard Disk (note: the 60GB is quite a bit slower than the 40GB, despite also being 5400 RPM in rotational speed. Why this is, I don't know. If speed is a factor, get the 40GB.) A few important things to remember about Dell's ordering process: -Most systems that are "custom built" have a lead time of several business days, sometimes up to a couple of weeks. -The "order status" page they offer is usually pretty inaccurate. During the first "production" phase, your parts are actually sitting in a bin somewhere waiting for all your parts to become available. Then, the production of your unit moves quickly to the 'testing' phase, which actually means your machine is in transit from Malaysia to the USA. At this point, you'll have it within a week. Upon receiving the unit, the first thing I did was format and reinstall with my work-licensed copy of Windows XP Professional. Taking a peek around, you'll notice the following niceties: -Both a glidepad and a eraser-head mouse with separate buttons for each. -A well-laid-out keyboard -Several media control buttons -3 informative LED's for Power, HDD activity and Battery charge status -A very nice, crisp display if a little washed out compared to the Toshiba. Now, over the past month or two, I've been doing my best to get to know this machine. I will do my best to summarize the pros and cons. The good: Battery Life: Good LORD this thing lasts forever on batteries. I received a 2nd free Li-ion battery upon ordering. When using both batteries, I've gone an ENTIRE AFTERNOON doing work on site, this is WITH my wireless aircard 555 going. Performance: This machine is no slouch. At 2.2ghz, it's blazingly fast while on AC power. (more on this later) Excellent 3d Graphics: While I was leery about the Mobility Radeon 9000 (thanks to ATI's poor reputation with their drivers), I am happy to say that almost all of the games I've played play flawlessly in full screen mode, including titles like Earth and Beyond, Dark Age of Camelot, Half Life, Medal of Honor, Battlefield 1942, and others. The ONLY game that seems to suffer from some minor graphical glitches is Quake 3 Arena, where occasionally you'll see a "previous frame" show up for a split second. Some games also show some issues with the hardware cursor, but this issue appears to be fixed in newer beta drivers (that have been leaked). Configurability and Expandability: Wow. You can get all sorts of stuff for this machine. You can even swap out video modules when the next latest and greatest comes out. It also includes everything you'd ever really want in a notebook port-wise. Parallel, Serial, VGA, 2 USB, Infrared, 2 Cardbus/PC card slots, Firewire (4 pin), Ethernet, 56k modem, a dedicated CD Rom/DVD Rom/Burner bay, and 2 Battery/Media bays (which I slapped a 2nd 40 gig ATA100 drive into, for a total of 80GB on the road). The fact that you can replace just about ANYTHING in this notebook makes it a system-builder's dream. The OK: The Display: The Ultrasharp UXGA display is bright and viewable at pretty good angles, but it tends to be a little washed out. Also, as much as they tout the viewing angle thing, it's not as viewable as the Toshiba display on my 5105-S607, and the color certainly isn't as vibrant. Don't go for the standard UXGA though, thinking it won't be much different. The standard UXGA display is pretty poor on my friend's Inspiron 8000. Weight: Since this is a DESKTOP REPLACEMENT, it's not a light machine. If you're a smaller person, you might have a sore shoulder after toting this thing around. If you're a big guy like me, it won't be a problem. Support: Dell used to be the BEST in this area, but they've slipped as of late. However, their online forums (http://delltalk.us.dell.com) are regularly visited by online support reps. While they aren't the most knowledgable, they tend to dig a little deeper than the usual scripted phone guy. Also, drivers and the like seem to be promptly updated, and are all available on their website with the exception of the Full version of WinDVD. However, this is included with your notebook on CD along with all your other drivers and OS files. No USB 2.0: While the Compaq Presario 2800T gives you USB2, this notebook does not. However, I can live without that since Firewire IS included. The Bad: Sound: The speakers are awful. Don't let anyone tell you "they're not so bad". They truly stink. The Toshiba 5105 had VERY good sound for a portable machine. It's something I miss greatly. The Downright Ugly: CPU speed on batteries: The BIGGEST definite problem involving the actual SPEED of this machine on Batteries. The bios is a bit unclear in how you configure your machine to be at maximum CPU speed while on batteries. With Speedstep, what's SUPPOSED to happen is this; The speed of your CPU should be in a slower state under lower CPU loads, and should INCREASE when something begins to utilize more processor resources. Currently, there's a BIG FAT BUG with this on the 8200's. While plugged into an A/C outlet, all is well. However, once you're on the road and on batteries, Speedstep begins to function erratically. Sometimes, you'll go for a good clip at 2.2ghz when playing a 3D game. But then all of a sudden, your framerate will go straight into the toilet, and will stay there. The big problem here is that there is nothing you can do about it. Dell *IS* looking into it, but they've been strangely quiet about this blatant problem since we've reported it. To view details about this issue, visit the following URL: http://forums.us.dell.com/supportforums/board/message?board.id=insp_power&message.id;=14331 Note: At this point there is NO WAY around this issue. While Dell says in their own documentation that 2.0ghz should be possible on battery power, it clearly does not hold true. This is a very serious bug, and if you plan on doing any high-powered computing while on the road, you may not be able to because of this bug. Dell seriously needs to address this, and quite honestly if I would have known about it beforehand, I would have delayed my order until they had time to fix it. All that being said, the machine performs fine for basic stuff. In fact, I only really notice this issue when i'm playing 3d games. I strongly suspect that the power draw of the 3d card and the processor may be too much for straight battery power. I hope this isn't the case. So, the bottom line.... This is an excellent notebook if you require a powerful desktop-like system, and the ability to travel. It isn't thin, it isn't light, in fact, it's not even pretty... but If it's a powerful desktop replacement you're after, look no further. What could be improved? 1. Get the processor speed up to 2.2ghz on battery. (3/4 star) 2. For ALL that's HOLY, put some DECENT SPEAKERS on this thing! (1/4 star, there's always headphones).
I have had my Inspiron 8200 for a couple of weeks, and now that I have an impression of the machine, I feel ready to review it. First off, I'll give my configuration, so you know what I'm talking about: P4m-1.6GHz, 128mb ram(upgraded to 384mb through crucial), 40 gig 5400rpm hard drive, 10/100 lan, 56k modem, wireless lan built-in, 8x DVD-ROM drive, 32mb GeForce4 440 Go and running Windows XP Professional. I have a friend that owns an Inspiron 8100, so I somewhat knew what to expect in looks. I really like this design. One point about the case, however. It seems to like keeping my fingerprints around after I've touched it, but it only seemed to happen on the outside of the case. I didn't notice this anywhere else. I liked the fact that the screen didn't overlap the edges of the rest of the computer, unlike my Inspiron 5000. But I was unprepared for how good the screen would look when I powered up. But before I powered up, I had to put in the extra memory I ordered from crucial. I did this because the memory was cheaper through crucial than getting it built-in. Installing the memory was as easy as it was with my 5000. One screw out, and the door to the memory bay popped off. No problems getting the dimm to fit. On first boot, it immediately detected the memory and went into a program that told you a little about the machine. I pretty much ignored it(I am a computer professional) but thought it would be good for a more novice computer person than I. Configuring Windows XP Pro was easy and I was in in minutes. I was immediately impressed by the speed that this computer had, and when I installed a game, was blown away by what the GeForce4 Go could do. It ran Star Trek Voyager: Elite Force, without so much as a hiccup. Now, I haven't had any problems with the computer thus far, other than getting it to work with my wireless lan, but this was a problem with my access point, rather than the laptop. Once I got that configured and out of the way, I was browsing the web wirelessly, and at a good speed, about the same as my wired lan(no, I didn't run benchmarks to prove that ;)). For heat dissipation, the system has 2 fans in the back that come on as needed to cool off the system. As yet, I have to be bothered by their noise, or, lack of extreme noise. I was prepared to deal with a loud fan with this machine, but I was surprised at how quiet the fans are! I have always liked the keyboards that Dell has equipped its laptops with, and this computer is no exception. I am typing the review on my laptop and the key travel and size are very adequate. The function keys are smaller than the rest of the keyboard, but I use them sparingly, so I don't have any problems with it. The speakers are better than I expected, as well. They do sound a bit tinny, but they have a decent range of sound and the volume is adequate for my uses. The quick keys above the keyboard also are a bonus, but I wish there was a hardware way to switch between application mode and cd/dvd player mode. These keys have 2 functions, but they are controlled by a software application that runs in the system tray on the computer. DVD playback looks excellent, too. I did notice, however, some artifacting in dark scenes, but that was because I took a small size clip and stretched it to full screen. Finally, (thought that would never come, eh?) I liked the fact that this computer came with both a touchpad and a pointing stick, along with two sets of mouse buttons. I personally prefer the touchpad, but I often find myself changing between the two. Also, one or the other can be disabled, so, if you would rather only use the touchpad, you can turn off the pointing stick, and vice versa. Now, one thing happened when I ordered this. I happen to get a discount through my company, and was told that there was a rebate if I went with the 4 year warranty. That turned out to not be the case, as the rebate was for a desktop system. After a few calls, they credit my order for the amount of the rebate. I wish it was easier to get a hold of the person that took your order, however, it wasn't enough to detract from the experience. I haven't had a need to call tech support yet(knock on wood), so I can't comment on how good/bad they are now. On the weight side, it is a good 8 lbs. and I would expect that for what the laptop has. If you're a road warrior, however, you might want a smaller laptop, as this would strain your shoulder. I have a backpack laptop case, and this helps me carry it around, though. On a side note, I did like the fact you could change the keyboard palmrests. I got the American Flag inserts, and I just have to say it's hard to get the standard silver rests out. Overall, I would recommend this laptop, as it has fulfilled my expectations and hope for it to continue doing so.
JANUARY 2004 UPDATE Since buying this computer in the Fall of 2002, I have used this computer as my main computer for my home business 5 days a week, 8 hours a day -- all without a single incident. I love my Dell computer and when the time comes to replace it, I will ONLY consider replacing it with another Dell laptop. == A COMPLETE REVIEW == Recently I needed to purchase a laptop for my home business use. I strongly considered the IBM ThinkPad T-Series, but the Dell Inspiron 8200 won out in the end for various reasons. Everything else being relatively equal, I placed my order with Dell namely because at the time they offered a better graphics card: the NVIDIA GeForce4 440 Go with 64 MB of DDR RAM (IBM offered a 32mb ATI card). Gaming is also important to me as well. -- DEALING WITH DELL -- Before I ordered I placed a phone call to Dell to get some questions answered. I must have called the wrong department listed in their catalog because I got a lady who basically said, "I’m sorry, I’m new and have no clue what you’re talking about. Let me transfer you." I was then transferred and curtly informed by a young lad that I had the wrong department. Being transferred again I reached someone in tech support who knew the marketing lingo, but none of true specs. Then he had the audacity to ask if I wanted to place an order with him. I said not at this time and would most likely do it via the web when I was ready. He then went off on me stating that I had just wasted his time and that he wouldn't get a commission on my sale. I apologized that Dell had set up their payment structure that way and that he had to take it out on me, but I restated that I was the customer and could choose when, where and how I was going to purchase my computer. Thankfully this adventure with Dell had a happy ending. Her name is Shannah at ext 40216 (800-624-9896). I had another question (was all the software included on CD’s or just preloaded – all CD’s are included) and she answered them all for me. She also asked if I wanted to place an order, and I said not yet, but give me your number. The next day I was and decided to place the order through Shannah instead of through the web. For two reasons, order processing was 24 hours faster through a sales representative than was ordering via the web. Plus, the web only specials were available through her as well (but check on this before you order – I ordered on the last day of the special). -- INITIAL REACTION -- When I first opened my box shipped via UPS (arrived days before I expected it) and pulled the laptop out I said "wow, this sucker is big and heavy". If I had to commute by train, bus or airplane often, I may consider a lighter laptop. While only 8 pounds, it adds up in a typical laptop bag full of papers and other work related stuff. -- CASE -- The case design is stylized with various curves, indents and emblems. Others complain about the dated look, but it has a contemporary look compared to a plain ole black box. Not as cool looking as an Apple notebook, but better than some. - Palm Rests The one thing I really don’t like are their so called "palm rests". Offered in various colors to personalize your laptop, they are nothing more than colorized plastic snap ins. The least they could do is add some padding to really make them a rest. I assumed black palm rests where the default color, but mine came with silver palms rests. I can’t stand the look. But if you’re into that kind of thing, there are 8 different styles you can choose from (for an extra cost). - Screen latch I have found the latch on top of the screen to be cumbersome to use. It has a very cheap feel and is difficult to open. Even with one latch, it still takes me two hands to open it. -- Security Cable Slot I just purchased a Kessington Security Cable on eBay for when I'm at a client site and need to lock it down from walk-aways. I know these cables can be easily cut, and if someone is determined to steal a laptop they will. However, it's like locking your car doors - hopefully the thief will look for an easier target first. Anyway, the Dell comes with two slots to secure the cable, located on the right and left. The right slot would be the logical choice because it doesn't block other plugs, but when I placed the cable in the slot and gave it a slight tug, the case bent out. I played with it a bit more and came to the conclusion if given a stronger tug I could break the plastic edge, thus freeing the laptop. While I'd prefer to keep my laptop case in one piece, I did not try it. The left slot received the same test and held much better, however the location isn't as ideal as the right as it blocks an input plug (has a TV icon next to it) and is also very close to the CD-RW/DVD player and could be in the way when ejecting. Also in the way of the phone cord or ethernet cable on this side as well. Would I trust the Dell case to hold up to someone really determined to take my desktop, I give a worried no. If security is a major issue for you, look at the IBM ThinkPad which has much stronger slots that feel robust and have no give. -- SCREEN -- My model came with a UMAX screen, but I upgraded for $50 to their Ultra-Sharp screen. There is no difference between the Ultra-Sharp and the UMAX except the elimination of the laptop sweet spot. What do I mean? Most LCD screens look best when viewed straight on, but the Ultra Sharp gives you 170 degrees of horizontal viewing, added brightness and increased contrast for these viewing angles. A person sitting next to you can now view what’s on the screen. Not good if you use your laptop on the train or airplane and want some privacy, but when surrounded by people you want to see what’s on your screen – this does the job very well. The native resolution is 1600x1200, and on a 15" screen, everything is hyper small. I’m used to running this resolution on a 19" or 21" monitor, and to require this on a 15" screen is basically insane. It took me a couple days to get used to the small resolution and now I have no problem adapting to it. However, those with poor eyesight might have some trouble reading the small text. One advantage to the small resolution is the increased screen real estate now available. For example, I can have a web browser open at 1024x768, and still have room on the screen to dock instant messenger or MP3 players without obstructing the view. Also, if you run programs that have a lot of floating toolbars (Dreamweaver, Flash, Illustrator, Photoshop, etc) you have places to put them out of the way. -- KEYBOARD -- Full size, very comfortable and the keys are where you expect them to be. There are separate volume buttons, and programmable buttons. My backspace button has a slight squeak to it. One thing I miss dearly from the IBM ThinkPad is their integrated keyboard light. A small thing, but something I used rather regularly. -- POINTING DEVICES -- The Dell comes with not one, but two pointing devices: a pointer pad and an eraser head stick. Why they provided both I don’t know, but it’s the best of both worlds. I became proficient at using the eraser stick on the IBM ThinkPad and use it extensively on the Dell, while others will swear by the touch pad. Simply a matter of preference and Dell provided that for you. However, if you use the eraser stick, the left/right mouse buttons are curved into the design of the case and took some getting used to using. They are indented more than one would expect. However, the buttons for the pad are extremely easy to use. Perhaps I haven’t found the correct setting yet, but I don’t believe I can set the speeds for each pointer separately. The eraser stick speed is just right to move around a screen of this size, but I spend forever pushing the pointer around with the touch pad. One thing I like is I can plug a mouse in while the computer is already on and I don’t have to reboot. -- WinXP -- This has nothing to do with the review of the Dell, but since it comes preloaded I just wanted to say that Microsoft finally got it right. Having been on Win 3.1, Win 95, Win2000 and now WinXP, this is the operating system that Microsoft should have started with. A rock solid battleship – I haven’t crashed yet. And the wizards actually work and do what you want them to. -- SOFTWARE -- Dell provides the CD’s for all the software preloaded on the machine. Dell preloads some trialware programs as well. 6 months of free AOL or MSN are available as well. -- HARDWARE -- Hard drive is quiet. My floppy drive is rather noisy, but it could simply be the diskette I’m using. The 56K modem logs into MSN at around 46kbps. It's worth mentioning that the CD player is relatively quiet. However, the clearance does not allow one to play CD's that have a label attached to them (i.e. a label you put on your own personal CD-R). The label makes the CD drag and not spin at the correct speeds. Once the label is removed the CD works fine (be very careful when removing an adhesive label). No problem playing CD's you would buy in the store. The Inspiron 8200 does not support the USB 2.0 standard yet. -- GRAPHICS -- The graphics are smooth and fast. Then again, I was used to a 4mb card on my desktop, so I’m easily impressed. One thing to be aware of: if you play older games, they don’t support resolutions beyond 1024x768. This results in the game being stretched to 1600x1200 (the setting of the screen) – which creates a slight out-of-focus view. Why not just set the screen resolution to 1024 instead of 1600? Well, laptops use LCD screens and the do not have the same characteristics as do computer monitors. On a computer monitor, the image is set to draw at a different frequency and can show you 640x480, 800x600 or 1024x768, etc. But an LCD screen doesn’t create the image the same way, instead it activates the crystals in the screen which are set at an exact resolution – in this case 1600x1200. -- POWER SUPPLY/AC ADAPTER -- The AC adapter gets really, really HOT! Reading the Dell manual, one learns that this is "normal". Well, it may be "normal" for Dell, but the ThinkPads had much cooler adapters. However, the current power supply shipped with this model has a very serious flaw, which has been discussed at length on Dell's support pages. Namely, when you plug the audio output from the laptop into a high-end stereo system/amplifier you start to hear things: static, rumblings, electronic noise. However, when you run on battery only, it all goes away. Strange. Thankfully, the easy solution is to buy a 3-prong to 2-prong plug converter, which eliminates the ground wire. It is good to note that even when using the original 3-prong plug, you can't hear these sounds on the laptop speakers or even headphones. It's only when listening on a high-end stereo system that is more sensitive.
After looking through many reviews here prior to and after I purchased my Inspiron 8200 (I8200), I felt compelled to write a review about my take on the highest-end Dell notebook available. Firstly, it is touted as a desktop replacement. You have to understand the reason for such a statement. The I8200 has the capacity to perform as well as a desktop system. With a P4M-processor, a GeForce4 GO video adapter and a good system architecture, it definitely lives up to its claim. However, you have to be aware that desktop replacements are not generally portable (not at this price) and are pretty heavy. Dell has opted for a open architecture to its 8000 series notebooks and this can be seen from the easily upgradeable options. From RAM to processor to even video cards, upgrades on this notebook is very much as easy to perform as it is on a desktop. I have compared my I8200 to a couple of my friends notebooks by various vendors and have found that my UXGA display is much better in terms of sharpness and clarity. Dell has also mentioned the specification for the UXGA but you really have to see it to believe it. I cannot determine how good the other displays are other than the UXGA simply because I have not seen them live. A couple of gripes I have with Dell and the I8200 firstly is the sales service. They seem to assume everyone pays by credit card and fail to divulge information on payments made otherwise. I bought mine via a wire transfer and found out very much later that there was to be a ten-day hold on the wire before they could proceed with processing my order. It was not fun finding out the way I did. As I did mention previously, you should expect the system to be big and heavy. It would have been great if it was sleek, small and light but that is just a pipe dream. Some other notebooks at around this price range come with a sub-woofer attached to the bottom. Definitely a nice feature that would have made the I8200 all the better. Finally, it has to be said that this is by far the most I have ever paid for a piece of computer equipment. If only the price tag could be reduced a little, but that is just me being picky. If the I8200 is everything that you have been dreaming of, there are a few things I would like to share with the prospective buyer. Two most important features that you should go for is the UXGA display and the GeForce4 GO video adapter. You have to bear in mind that the UXGA runs at a native 1600X1200 resolution and you will need a very good graphic card to keep up with that kind of demand. The display quality and video adapter are closely related. They also are the hardest parts to replace/upgrade (particularly the display).
My friend’s son, Michael, recently bought a Dell Inspiron 8200 for college. He had been researching and trying to decide between a Dell and Sony Vaio for a long time and finally settled on the Dell because of its well known reliability and its customer service. To date, these Dell traits have yet to distinguish themselves. The computer has been working well but is not flying ahead of Michael’s friend (my son) and his Sony Vaio. At the beginning of his computer odyssey, Michael spent much time in consultation with me and my son as to the pros and cons of both the Vaio and the Inspiron. Most of the computers in both lines seemed to share most of the same characteristics and have a similar price. What the final decision boiled down to was: Is the Sony’s superior appearance paramount to the reliability of the Dell? The decision was that service, while away at school, was more important than a good looking but not working computer. Now that Michael has had the computer for over a month, he has been reevaluating his decision to buy the Dell. Michael was trying to choose between the Dell Inspiron 8200 and the Sony NV-170. Both of the machines had specs similar to these: ~1.6GHZ 256MB RAM 30GB hard drive 32MB video card UXGA for the Dell and SXGA for the Sony CDRW/DVD combo drive 3 year warranty for the dell, 1 for Sony Network card 56Kb modem One of the features of the Sony, which was definitely not included in the Dell, was the media that could be exchanged in the modular bay. The Dell can only accept a battery while the Sony can replace the disk drive with either a subwoofer or a number pad. This feature alone made the Vaio a tantalizing purchase. In the end, as I said, Michael went with Dell. Right out of the box he was not as impressed with the computer as he would have liked to have been. He expected to have a super fast computer since it had a 1.6GHz processor but was dismayed to find that it was not loading applications at the expected double speed of my son’s computer. My son has a Vaio FX which has the same 256MB of RAM but is one year older and has a now paltry 800MHz. When the play games together over the network the extra speed of the Dell shows itself, but not to the desired degree. The video card of the Dell has been another source of problems. There is one game he has been pining to play on his computer: Medal of Honor Allied Assault. It is a graphics intense game. He was hoping that game would look as good as it was supposed to on his UXGA screen and his 32MB video card. Unfortunately, he could barely play for five minutes before the screen started to have lines. Eventually the entire screen would be covered and the game would be unplayable. This was very discouraging as he had seen the game on my son’s computer and it worked well and looked good there. He was hoping that with the extra money he had paid for his screen to be upgraded to UXGA it would look better than my sons computer, but not only were colors missing, but the game could not be sustained even its poor graphics condition. This prompted a call to Dell customer service and brings us to another problem with the Dell. I handled the customer service call myself as I was the one with the most experience present at the time. My call was answered by what seemed to be a representative with no computer experience at all. He only read to me from the cards he had in front of him, and had no experience diagnosing this type of problem himself. He asked questions about unrelated topics and then attempted to blame the problems on these unassociated issues. After over two hours on the phone with Dell during which he had me download and install the same program numerous times, we fixed sort of fixed the problem. I say sort of because the line problem was marginally cured, but his &#147fix" now gave us the added problem that part of the screen would move and part was stuck where it was. At that point he declared the problem was with the game and that there was nothing that could be done. Despite these problems with the computer, it does have some great features. The spacious 30GB hard drive will be more than enough to hold anything Michael will ever put on there. The networking on the computer has been very easy thanks in part to the smart functionality of XP. The CDRW/DVD drive has also performed as well as was expected and has had no problems. One great feature of this notebook that the Sony does not have as far as I know, is its external monitor capability. The Inspiron has the ability to support two monitors at the same time. These can be either side by side or they can show the same image. The Sony can only show an image on one monitor. If a game is displayed on an external monitor or TV for spectator viewing, then the notebook screen is turned off. The Dell also seems to have a problem with its heat generation and dispersion. The Inspiron appears to have multiple fans and the run simultaneously to create a lot of noise, yet the Inspiron cannot sit on my lap. It burns after only a few minutes. The Vaio is much quieter and its fans disperse the heat allowing it to stay comfortably on my lap for hours at a time. The sound on the Dell is better by far the sound on the Vaio, yet neither is really any good for listening. Both are tinny and sounds can be cloaked by the sound of the fans on the Dell. Both computers, and probably most other notebook on the market require external speakers/headphones to sound good. The only other negative feature of this computer when compared with the Vaio is the weight. The Dell is a few pounds heftier than the Sony. Both are easy enough to carry around the house or dorm, but you would not want to have to carry the Inspiron around with you all day. The most appreciated feature of Inspiron though, and the one that made the final decision in its purchase, is its service centers. There is an authorized repair center on the campus of the school Michael is attending just as there is on many college campuses. If he does have a problem with his computer, he has only to walk down the road a short ways to have it fixed. Although my son does not have an authorized Sony repair center on his campus, and there is not one close by, he has yet to experience any problems in the year he has had his computer. He has been lucky in his decision to get a Sony. He got the stylish computer with the possible problems, but has yet to have any problem he cannot fix himself. Most computers work well and the Dell Inspiron 8200 works just as well as any other and performs just as well if not better than any other. But in the quest for a computer, a lot can depend on your level of computer knowledge. If you require an easy to use and generally problem free computer, with the security of nearby repair centers, then the Dell is right for you. If you can handle most of the problems that may arise from your computer, then you may consider getting another computer.
See my previous review (here in the 8200 reviews written under my original log-in "NewsyBC")... I ordered an 8200 in June and received it within 10 days. I tried to place the order online but in the process I contacted the sales dept to ensure I'd qualify for the current E special as it was for business clients only. This time I was put onto a calm "no problem" person who listened and assured me I qualified. She even keyed in the order for me and allowed for free shipping just as if I'd placed the order online. My notebook: P4M 1.6GHz cpu, 256M RAM, SVGA+ 15" screen, 64M Nvidia GeForce4 GO video card (which is really an updated GeForce2 as it is based on the NV17 chipset), 30M HD, DVD. I have to say that I'm very pleased with the graphics performance. I game online a fair bit and this machine sustains max framerates at 1024x768 mode in my fave FPS's (CS & DoD). The only downside is that the 4200rpm HD is a choke point and for gaming under WinXP you should really have 512M of RAM or more in order to counter the HD cache read issues. Now that I've been typing on it for a 3 weeks or so, I find the keyboard to have just the kind of feel that I like. I've since gone back to the retail stores and checked out the keyboards on several other brands and I think Dell has the right touch. Solid with a definite event horizon on the push. Not mushy. I tried an external keyboard with it and it seemed that not all the keys worked in certain hotkey combinations. As I was tweaking the video at the time and trying to configure an external monitor, my problems may have been more related to software not having an effect on the external monitor rather than this being a keyboard problem. More to follow. I used the touchpad for a day and then added a MS Intellimouse Explorer to the system. The MS mouse software does not have the features of the the original Apoint touchpad software which is a shame. If I knew I'd be using the touchpad only for a couple of hours, I'd simply disable the MS driver via "run" + "msconfig" + "startup" and enable the Apoint driver. Btw... I had to disable it manually after installing the MS Mouse. One of the nice features of the Apoint software was the ability to designate the upper and right sides of the pad to perform a specific task such as the browser "Back" & "Forward" buttons, and to emulate the scroll wheel function of an external mouse. I'm a little disappointed in the LCD screen. As compared to UGA+ screen I saw at a trade show, there is no comparison. Unfortunately I did not have the budget to purchase that option and thought that I wouldn't miss it too bad as I could use the 19" external monitor I have here. Don't get me wrong as I'm not saying there is much wrong with the SVGA+ screen because there isn't. If you are planning to use the system for spreadsheets, contact management, word processing, or email, you will enjoy the SVGA+ screen. It is sharp and readable at its' native resolution of 1400x1050 for these tasks. However, it is not well suited for image editing as the gamma shifts from top to bottom of the image when you are seated in your normal viewing position. You can work around it by bobbing and ducking your head. Images look nice and sharp on it but truly, there is no comparison to the UGA+. Speaking of image editing, it was a real pleasure to see images that on my old 256M RAM 450Ghz cpu took 21 seconds to decode, now are taking only 6 seconds. For gaming, no problem. I run at 1024x768 so there is some degradation from native resolution but the scenery still looks good. There is some edge bleeding when you move fast as the LCD phosphors recover but it does not disturb or interfere with my gameplay. Again, the UGA+ screen would not exhibit the bleeding from what I've read. Aside from budget, I did not order the UGA+ screen as I anticipated being able to easily connect and configure my external 19" monitor. Well, this has been another area I'm unhappy about but it is really a Nvidia driver issue I think. I was hoping I'd be able to "profile" the external monitor so that the colours would be accurate while editing images. I have yet to get this one figured out and as I only spent an evening trying to resolve it I don't know that it would be fair to say this is a shortfall. I have started using an accessory program (Powerstrip) to control the LCD colours as Nvidia driver did not offer a way to set the "temperature" of the LCD. My external monitor sets this thru controls on its' front panel but I have yet to find something similar internal to the notebook. Powerstrip is a quick and easy way to set this. This also highlighted a weakness in the manual that shipped with the notebook and also Dell's online tech support. It was not an intuitive process to find the menu link in the Nvidia drivers that allowed for changing the base colour, contrast, brightness, and gamma of the video. I've been updating video drivers for a few years now and this is the best hidden I've ever seen this function. For the record, with the 28.35 drivers it is accessed via a "Device Settings" button at the bottom right corner of the "NView" tab page. Normally these controls would have a tab of their own, and in fact, if you make your external monitor the "primary" (instead of the digital LCD) this tab magically appears. I've read some comments that the fan noise of this unit is intrusive but I find otherwise. It is quiet enough and as compared to the fan noise on my overclocked desktop system it is silent. Consider that the fan does not run continuously even when gaming. The external speakers are a little weak and tinny but I don't miss them as I use earbud headphones quite a bit. Ran the battery down a couple of times and both times it ran around 2 hours and 35 minutes. This was while displaying a slideshow. I never ordered a CD burner as I plan to get an external USB2 unit when the prices come down and use a PCcard adapter to hook to it. That way I can also use it for my desktop system. I'll also likely buy a USB2 external 40M HD to backup the internal drive to. For now I transfer files across the network and use the old slow 6x burner to save images and other data. What would I do different next time?? Get 512M RAM minimum to deal with WinXP's bloat and cache issues. Get the UGA+ screen if I had the $$$$.
My new laptop came with a P4 2.0 GHz processor, 1 GB of RAM, and a 5400-RPM 40-gig hard drive. The operating system is Windows XP Professional. Needless to say, it was fast out of the box, and it got even faster when I turned off some unnecessary things like the XP system-restore function. The screen is a 15" 1600 X 1200 UltraSharp (Dell trademark, I think) UXGA screen. The screen is really amazing, easily worth the small amount of extra money. I was torn when I bought this laptop, thinking that for once I would stop forcing myself to squint in an effort to pack as much text as possible onto the screen at once (I'm a computer programmer); I'd choose something like 1280 X 1024 resolution and save both my eyesight and pocketbook the strain. AM I GLAD I DIDN'T. Even with fairly small fonts, something about this screen makes it possible to read text from ten feet away or more with normal eyesight. Colors are bright and true, also. However, I suspect that the display is responsible for the poor battery life of this machine. I bought a combined DVD-CDRW drive specifically so that I would never have to swap out a battery for a secondary optical drive, and I was eagerly anticipating 10-hour run times with both batteries in. Under all sorts of different processing conditions, the batteries last just a tad over five hours. Good enough, but still disappointing. Someone who needs very long battery life would probably not be picking such a large, heavy laptop in the first place, of course... For the first time, the included Roxio Easy CD Creator isn't full-featured-- you're encouraged to upgrade to the super-duper version for extra money. It comes with the ability to make data CDs, but not music CDs. This is somewhat annoying after spending over $3,200 . MusicMatch Jukebox (normal version, not Plus) comes with the machine as well, and for the first time it never skips on playback, which is great. MusicMatch has for a long time been the best tool for creating MP3s on PCs, but is notorious for having playback problems on all sorts of machines and OSes. Now I don't have to switch over to WinAmp or something else to listen to my music. My advice is to go for the "performance" 40-gig hard drive, not the 60-gig drive, because the spindle speed is much faster. A friend has the 60-gig version, which seems to give worse performance. A couple of laptops I bought from Dell in the past had problems. One had a backlight that kept going south after about two months of use, even when replaced, and started falling apart at the screen hinge. The other developed a cracked motherboard during normal use, which had to be replaced. Only time will tell with the new one. Instead of basic black (which I thought I was getting), my laptop came with annoying silver color inserts. I guess Dell decided to make people pay for the basics now, the way they now charge you up front for a shortened phone-wait time. This machine is godawful heavy with both batteries in. I'm a big strong guy, and I sometimes catch myself switching hands carrying it out to the parking lot in its bag. On the plus side, it doesn't get hot enough to burn your legs, the way my P3-based Inspiron 8100 did. Batteries and drives from many previous models of Dell laptops can be used with the 8200, which came for the first time with this information. Slight degradation in performance will apparently be noticed if you use anything but the battery type that ships with the laptop, but I'm not going to even try. All in all, I like this machine, and I'm glad to have it (at least until it starts having problems). Dell consistently puts the latest technology in their Inspiron laptops at attractive prices; the only drawbacks are support and portability. And you'll pay extra for good support-- 400 dollars or thereabouts for 3-year at-home service, unless it's on sale. Dell once more screwed up on the shipping, as they've done with the other four machines I bought from them. I bought next-day shipping, and soon found (as ever in the past) that their website does NOT display a true status of one's order. The machine blew through all the build steps in a day, but then lingered in the "boxing" phase (yes, where all they have to do is put it into a box) for almost a week. I grew concerned and called customer support three times, and was rudely told by one woman that the website had the latest information and that's where I should focus my attention; the two other reps I spoke to were polite but uninformed. I was supposed to be sent a FedEx tracking number as soon as it shipped, but lo and behold, it was delivered one day when I wasn't home, although that night the website still said it hadn't been put in the box. Afterwards, there was no way to track the problem, since FedEx's website gives a "duplicate tracking number" error when I enter the number. The package was also left without any attempt made to get someone to sign for it, disturbing to say the least. The long and short of it all is that I paid for next-day shipping, but basically was unable to receive it the day it was delivered due to poor tracking by Dell. The last time I spoke to them on the phone they blamed the whole thing on the Slammer worm. In the past, I've had even more major problems with Dell shipping. One desktop machine was left on my doorstep in plain view during a snowstorm; I arrived home to find the machine in its box (which had a gaping rent in the side) with a pile of snow on top. Dell's support is the worst I've ever received from a company except for Columbia House DVD Club. I complained mightily, albeit politely, about all this and told their support people that unless I was refunded my shipping fees this time, I will not buy another thing from Dell. The last time I heard from them was two weeks ago; the issue was left hanging. I'm not worried about it any more, but I'm through with them. Next time I'll probably try Compaq.
This computer is a real desktop system replacement, because it comes fully loaded with everything you need. My system came with a 1.8GZh Pentium-4 Mobile, 512MB RAM, 64MB Video, DVD/CD-RW combo, docking station, monitor stand, and a bunch of accessories. I also bought the 19-inch Dell Trinitron monitor, which is amazing and highly rated as well. A 4-year warranty came with the laptop. The first thing I noticed was it's weight, this thing is heavier than it looks and feels like a few big books are in the specially-designed padded backpack that came with it. The floppy drive in the front can be removed and replaced with a second battery, which is great for power! The DVD/CD-RW is on the side, with the network connection and card slots. There is a 40GB hard drive inside. The docking station is useless when it comes to network and sound connectivity, both ports do not work. I have to connect the network cable to the laptop directly and I have to use the laptop speakers for sound, instead of the nice speakers that sit on my desk. I called Dell many times about this and they agreed to replace the docking station after hours of trying to make it work. I expect that to arrive shortly. Another thing that I noticed is sometimes this computer is slower than my 1GHz Pentium-III when starting and running some applications. It just takes longer to get revved up and has many power-saving utilities and options that put it to sleep every now and then. These can be customized, but it's still slow to warm up. Once the applications are running it's smooth sailing from there. The laptop screen is not very even under light and provides a lot of shading when you look at it at an angle. The touchpad is also accompanied by a little knob in the middle of the keyboard so you have a choice. Everything is adjustable and customizable, like screen brightness, touchpad sensitivity, mouse cursor speed and so on. The screen size is a generous 15.1 inches. I am very happy with this laptop and it's solid construction makes me confident that it will last a while.
Here is the skinny - If you are in the market to buy a laptop and are looking for a desktop replacement rather than a road warrior, this is the machine to buy. I have owned an Inspiron 8000 previously which i was extremely happy with. I upgraded to this model a week ago. For $1,628 i got a 1.8GHz Pentium 4, 128MB RAM, 20GB HDD, DVD, 15" SXGA+ (1400*1050) display, 32MB GeForce4Go, Windows XP Home and 1yr warranty. I spent another $70 buying a 256MB stick of RAM from www.upgradenation.com. When i first got my laptop, i was pleasantly surprised to observe that the construction quality had improved since the 8000 model. The display tilts much more smoothly, the keyboard is subtly better, the body seems more rigid. However, its still not as good as i would like to be - example Sony Vaio. But for its price, the quality is extremely good. I was actually worried that since these laptops are cheaper (i bought my Inspiron 8000 for $2,300), they might have skimped on quality but i was wrong. I ran the 3DMark2001 benchmark to check out the performance of the GeForce4Go video card and was amazed to see a score of 4,900. This means it will play even the latest action games smoothly. I also have my PCMark2002 scores posted at -http://service.madonion.com/compare?pcm=389933 if you'd like to compare with your existing laptop to see if its worthwhile to upgrade. The other good thing about a laptop like this is that you can keep it current by upgrading down the road. You can buy a bigger and faster hard disk to further improve performance. The memory can be upgraded all the way to 1,024MB. Just like the older models, i expect Dell will allow you to upgrade the video card in the future also. The only thing this laptop is missing (which a lot of other new ones are too) is USB 2.0 support. Considering that most of the new external devices like DVD/CD burners, hard disks provide connectivity through USB 2.0 instead of FireWire, i am afraid that i might not be able to buy the accessories i want 'cause this laptop wont support them.
This will be the last PC based computer we will ever buy... because it will last so long ?? No.... because we have had it with computer lock-ups and will move on to Apple. We had heard so many good things about Dell. Their laptops are always ranked #1 #2 and # 3 on PC World. I am very suspicious with these rankings. It is hard to imagine that there is a computer that is worse than our Dell. After our Inspiron arrived by mail we almost immediately started having problems with the screen freezing up. Not while we were working, but if we let the computer sit for about 10 minutes, (where normal computers screen savers would come up) our screen would go black, with a small strip of the screen below on the left side of the screen. This problem gradually became worse, so it was difficult to just send the computer back. We called Dell (since we had paid for extra On site service etc). We waited online for several minutes, having to listen to all sorts of messages 1st. Finally someone came online and told us that yes they have problems with this, sometimes we will have to reboot. Well let me tell you "sometimes" is practically every time we go on the computer. I have tried to call Dell on several occasions, most times they tell me to go online to find patches, etc. I have never been able to find anything. Once Dell mailed us a floppy to fix the problem. This also did not work. My mistake was being so patient with Dell. My advise, if you have any problems with your Dell Laptop send it back immediately, do not hang around for their terrible service. My Dad also bought a Dell Ispiron 4000 and has similar problems. He also has had the run around when he called Dell. Anyways, I would strongly recommend you stay clear of Dell. It seems that they are more concerned with their stock price. The bad service is also an attempt to save on expenses. In the end the consumer pays. Terrible computers and even worse customer service. Period. I'll let you know how our research goes re: Apple and post a review on what to buy.
I purchased this for business and for note taking in class. I'm a student, so I wanted something that was powerful enough to handle all the audio, video, multimedia and software I would use in it. I also wanted something to play DVD's when I'm on the road. Overall I am very impressed with this unit. I configured mine with 512 MB of Ram, 1.8 GHz P4 processor, 64 MB Video card, and a 60GB hard drive. All for about $3,800. I also purchased the docking station so I would not have to find an outlet to charge this every time I get home. This way, all I do is slide it on the docking station and it's instantly charging, and has a desktop mouse and keyboard ready to use. The sound is good, I would give it a 6 out of 10. That may sound low, but the highest I would give any notebook that I have heard is 8. The screen is VERY sharp, very clear and perfect for DVD's. People are so surprised that the screen looks as good as it does. The video card is equipped with a Geforce4Go with 64MB of ram. Perfect for high-res graphics. The keyboard is wonderful. Very quite and sturdy. The added track pad/mouse stick is great! This is perfect for users who are sharing this, or people who get tired of using one of the other all the time. The wireless card option is perfect for people who hate having to plug their laptop into a network using cords. I was able to get a good signal about 50 feet away! The battery life was great because I purchased dual batteries, thus giving me extra battery life (a total of about 4-5 hours depending on use). CompleteCare is great, and Dell is the only one who offers it as far as I know. If I drop my notebook, supposedly Dell will replace any broken pieces, or even the notebook itself. That is great, especially if you have kids or travel a lot! The problems with Dell notebooks are the quality of tech support. Many times I found myself training them over the phone with their own stuff! Of all the times I called them (20X+) I only spoke with one person who was polite. Most of the reps are rude, and in some cases insulting. I asked for supervisors, but they almost always hang up or refuse to get one for you. I am an advanced user, with many years experience. I mainly called support for minor issues, also so I could get a feel of how helpful their support team was. The reason I mention this is because if you are a user who needs tech support, I would not suggest Dell. However, if you are a user who is able to do most things on your own without help, I would highly recommend this notebook.
 I am a very choosy buyer and especially when it comes to shelving out more than $1k for anything. So I did a lot of research for about a month and basically it boiled down to Dell I8200($1574 with S/H), Sony FXA-49($1399), Gateway 450 and Compaq 2720($1399). The 2720 does not come with internal floppy drive and also I heard that compaq has horrible service record. In addition to that, they won't honor the warranty for screen unless it has more that 5 burnt pixels. The Sony was very good, in fact has the best sound system that I have heard and the coolest looks. But I am still a bit hesitant to go with AMD and also it had only SDRAM and 8MB of video memory. Gateway was more than the similarly configured Dell by $200. So finally it was only I8200. All I can say is that I am extremely satisfied with the product. The graphics is excellent and the screen very sharp and bright. Among the numerous plus points --- almost all types of interfaces are there except Bluetooth. I didn't purchase the WLAN card from Dell(they were charging $99 for that --- you can get it at much cheaper price outside) but has the capability to do so. The sound system even though not the greatest is pretty decent. Only if you put it to max volume there is a tiny noise associated. The only flip side is that the system gets heated and the fans are quite noisy. I have burnt CDs and watched DVDs and there were no frame loss. Did some testing of the customer service(had read a whole bunch of -ive comments!!!)and all the three times they have been very polite and helpful. So all in all I would say its a great system. My config is : 1. P-4-M 1.6G 2. 20 GB HD 3. 256MB DDR SDRAM 4. 32 MB Geforce2Go( I am not much of a gamer so don't need geforce4 or 64MB) 5. 3.5 floppy 6. CDRW-DVDROM
 ... as after reading several comments here on Dell's customer service I ran into the following. There is an advertisement in todays paper for the 8200 offering the unit for $2499 $CDN under E-value code 56322-CBCV4W1. This is a fantastic value and I'll probably buy a unit in any case but when you use the E-Value code online to enter the order strange things start to happen. First, a window pops up: "To enhance your Dell experience, we have configured your system with Dell's Recommended Upgrades, which may include a larger monitor for optimized viewing, a bigger hard drive for storage, more memory for system productivity and/or Dell's award-winning 3-Year On-Site Service. TO OBTAIN THE ADVERTISED PRICE, use the simple dropdown menus to remove these upgrades and update your price. Easy as Online. Easy as Dell." Then on checking the price you see that it is $2569... not $2499 as advertised!! So on proceeding to the pull down menus to adjust it back to the advertised price, as they claim you can do, THERE IS NO WAY TO DO IT!!!! To my further delight, on reviewing the RAM the standard configuration is 2x128M SoDIMMS. In order to get 512M RAM you have to take the option of 2x256 which adds $240 to the base price. Leaving all else the same results in a total of $2809. Checking with Crucial shows no advantage in buying there. I found it strange that in a MS XP world Dell would configure all their high end notebooks in this manner. In fact the Dell price per strip exactly matches what I'd pay through Crucial. On impulse, I went back and started fresh without using the E-Value code. I configured the 8200 just as per the advertised package including the upgrade to 2x256M SoDIMMs. What a coincidence.... $2809. Hmmmm! *** Update May 24, 2002 *** I called Dell today to order an 8200. This weeks specials were a free HD upgrade from 20 to 30G and a free memory upgrade from 128 to 256M (but still 2x128 strips, grumph!). So I called and via the small business group, talked with "M". M had a lot of troubles clarifying the warranty for me - she just did NOT know the policies available. But what really rocked me is that she wouldn't accept the configuration I was looking at. I was told the 1.4Ghz CPU was no longer available, that it was only showing on the web site due a URL error. Then I was told it had something to do with time zones. I'm PST but I called at 11:30 AM, well before the close of Dell's EST business day. She gave me a verbal price that was about $250 higher than I was looking at in the Dell configurator. So I told her I wouldn't close the order until I saw something in writing and was told she'd be faxing that right over. 5 hours later it is not here and I've probably not a leg to stand on to buy using this past week's pricing & specials. The Dell system has already changed over to next weeks "special" and it is strictly "free shipping" A $119 value (btw... I've sourced a lot of airfreight in the last 10 years and have never paid more than $40 for 2nd day air for 20 lbs... can you say "Profit Center"?). I'm going to wait until a better Dell "special" is available and maybe one of the other big name manufacturers will bring a unit to market offering the same graphics capability in my price range. Those new Compaq 2800T's look mighty sexy and www.Anandtech.com/mobile has an excellent review of one. 3 lbs lighter, USB 2.0 + wireless + DVD/CD-RW + 30G HD all standard (have to buy the floppy). Too bad you can't get the 2800T model in Canada or I'd order one right now. The bottom line for me now... is Dell a company I can trust? Anyone from Dell want to address this?
I purchased my Inspiron around the end of May, and since the moment I ordered Dell's customer service was exceptional. Upon recieving the Inspiron, setup was simple - requiring me to answer only a few simple questions. The Inspiron is a great choice for all those who are in need for a reliable system, capable of preforming the same tasks as on a desktop - actually this laptop outpreforms many desktops being sold currently, with an optional 2.0 Gigahertz processor and up to 1 Gig of special DDR Ram Memory - hard drive space? You can get up to 60 Gigs. There is one fixed drive, which you may chose, as well as one modular drive in which you can place anything from an extra CD drive, ZIP drive, Floppy drive, or place a spare battery thus increasing your portability time away from an outlet. But be careful, this computer doesnt come cheap, while the price runs higher than most other laptops, its reliability, customer service record, and features make it worth it if you are looking for a system to use at home/work/road/school, both stationary and mobile. Other Specs: 2 USB Ports ->Easily more by purchasing a 4 port USB hub Touchpad mouse AND Pointer mouse Firewire (IEEE 1394) port ->Quick hookup for Digital Cameras etc Infrared Port ->Easily connect to PDA's, Printers, other devices w/Infrared capabilities Dell TrueMobile Mini PCI card -> I would definatly go for this option, it's an interal wireless network card ->Great especially if your workplace/home/campus is wirelessly networked If you wish to have more information visit http://www.dell.com/us/en/dhs/products/series_inspn_notebooks.htm By the way, If you're interested in Dual Booting a Dell Laptop with Linux and Win XP, let me know, I'll be more than happy to help, I was required to do so for college, and did so multiple times throughout the past few months.
Overview The Dell Inspiron 8200 is a great all around notebook, in fact it is best called a desktop-replacement mobile PC because it contains the power of a mid-range PC in the size of a notebook. However this comes at a price; the laptop weighs a good 5-7 lbs depending on configuration. The Inspiron is no exception to Dell’s industry-leading performance and support in their products. This laptop performs very well and Dell offers many different support options when purchasing your PC. The following is a breakdown of this PC as well as some of the bugs/quirks I have found along with it and the configuration of my laptop. My System - 1.6 P4 –M processor - 256 MB DDR RAM - 16x DVD-ROM/CD-RW combo Drive - 32 MB NVIDIA GeForce 2 2GO video card - 56K modem/ (10/100) network port (built in) - 30GB Hard Drive - WIN XP Home - Standard Battery - 15" LCD Screen UXGA Resolution Package and Shipping When I received the Inspiron 8200 it came within a week of my ordering it. The laptop came all in one box, packaged very neatly with the instruction manual on top. Once out of the box I was able to plug the machine in and use it right away, without having to &#145condition’ the battery. This was very nice, and I started the machine and instantly I was given the initial Win XP screen to setup my usernames and password. The setup was painless and I was off and running in no time. Which leads me to the performance issue: Performance The Inspiron 8200 is powered by the powerful Intel Pentium 4-M processor. For my configuration I ordered the 1.6 Ghz processor. This processor is powered by Intel’s SpeedStep technology. This enables the OS to cycle the Processor down depending on the demands of the current task(s). This is a great powersaving mechanism and can be disabled in the system. Initially my system showed great performance running through the basic tasks, until I started loading programs on which tends to slow any machine down. However, the Inspiron 8200 is very much able to handle some serious number crunching despite its small size. It is definitely one of the speedier notebooks on the market. After six months of extensive use (it is my primary computer), I have noticed a few unexplainable quirks. Sometimes when running on battery power the computer will not start when the power button is pressed. This can usually be fixed by plugging in the power adapter or by putting the battery in a different bay. The other quirk is with the NVIDIA GeForce2 2GO video card. Sometimes, despite driver updates, the computer will freeze and the screen will shrink to a little square in the middle and will remain like that until the machine is restarted. I have been unable to explain it, it happens infrequently, and I haven’t sought technical assistance from Dell. This notebook not only runs applications well but it is a great portable DVD player. I have used this notebook plenty of times as such a device. I have plugged it into TVs (another great feature!), into home theater systems, into headphones, and have been able to watch crystal clear DVD movies. As far as other multimedia performance goes the Inspiron 8200 handles most of the demands quite well. The images are usually very clear and the sound, when hooked up to external speakers, is very nice. If no external speakers are used the laptop’s built-in speaker system is merely okay. It does not have a very high max volume, and the sounds are kind of flat, and not rich and deep as with a three piece system. The other slight drawback comes with the monitor. The LCD screen has a very narrow viewing angle, blurring or changing colors at various angles. This can be a problem when trying to watch a DVD from afar, but other than that the nice 15" screen is very nice. PROS -- Big LCD screen -- Touchpad & Eraser pad mouse -- Two easy access media bays -- Two USB Ports -- Video Out capability w/ adapter -- Built- in Microphone -- Battery indicator lights on battery -- Media buttons on the top -- Removable palm rests -- Easy access to RAM and other key system upgrades -- Built in IR -- Very customizable when ordered -- Mini Firewire port -- Relatively quiet CONS -- Thicker then a lot of notebooks -- One of the heavier notebooks -- Screen does not have a large viewing angle -- Slow Hard drive -- Built in speakers are merely okay Conclusion To conclude this review the Dell Inspiron is a great notebook for someone who is looking for having a versatile computer, a hybrid between a desktop and a notebook. However if multimedia is not a necessity for you then consider stepping down to the next notebook level for Dell. If looking for speed then I would opt for a desktop because you can get more bang for your buck in that department. For me the choice was simple, I am a college student and I wanted something I could carry to class as well as something that would be easy to take home during a vacation. This PC has everything I want, and has room to grow. I am very impressed with this laptop and I would buy a Dell notebook again.
I have had my Dell Inspiron 8200 for about a year. Before I had the 8200 I had the 8000. I only had one problem with the 8000; it was a display problem that could not be fixed. So Dell sent me a newer model, brand new computer. Since then I have had no other problems. My computer works great. I have plenty of memory, and with a Pentium 4, I have all of the speed I need. The system is fully loaded. I have two USB ports and even an IR port that I use with my PDA. The Computer is a little heaver than some, but that is because Dell did not sacrifice function ability for size. It is still quite portable though. It has a big screen and shortcut keys. I have a DVD-Rom and a CD-RW on the computer for burning and watching movies. I used to use it as a DVD player, video game console, and an audio editor. It worked great since I could plug it into my television and see the display on my screen. To complete the package, the system boasts a powerful battery. I have personally used the computer for over 3 hours while I watched movies and played video games. I have had computers from a lot of different manufacturers and I must say that Dell by far has the best costumer service. Their equipment is first rate and the technology is up to date. I recommend this computer of any other dell product to anyone looking for a well built computer and great costumer service.
