The government of Saddam Hussein has lost control over Baghdad after US forces advanced into the centre of the capital. US tanks drove unhindered into public squares on the eastern bank of the Tigris for the first time, including the area surrounding the Palestine hotel, where the international media are based. In a symbolic moment, an American armoured vehicle helped a crowd of cheering Iraqis to pull down a huge statue of Saddam Hussein in the Fardus square in front of the hotel. Dozens of exultant people leapt on the deposed figure and stamped on it, shouting "Death to Saddam!". US Secretary of Defence Donald Rumsfeld described the scenes as "breathtaking". He said Saddam Hussein was "taking his place in the pantheon of failed brutal dictators". US President George W Bush has said this is a historic moment. However, his spokesman, Ari Fleischer said: "As much as the president is pleased to see the progress of the military campaign ... he remains very cautious because he knows there is great danger that can still lie ahead". US Central Command has "added Baghdad to the list of places the regime does not have control", spokesman Vincent Brooks told reporters at the daily Central Command briefing. CENTRAL BAGHDAD Baghdad webcam: This service is subject to interruption The Americans have been advancing from three directions. There are still reports of resistance, particularly to the west of the city. The BBC's Gavin Hewitt, who is travelling with the US 3rd Infantry Division in the west, says the scenes of welcome for the American soldiers witnessed in the centre have yet to be seen. Looting spreads There has been no sign of the officials who have until now dealt with the media on a daily basis. Mr Rumsfeld said that Syria - which he accuses of giving military assistance to Iraq - had helped members of the regime escape. "Senior regime people are moving out of Iraq into Syria and Syria is continuing to send things into Iraq. We find it notably unhelpful," he said. Mr Rumsfeld said he did not know the whereabouts of Saddam Hussein or whether he had survived the coalition advances. The day began with cheering Iraqis greeting marines arriving in the Shia stronghold of Saddam City. CENTRAL BAGHDAD Map: Fighting in Baghdad Who are the Shia? United Nations offices have been ransacked and the Olympic Committee building - headquarters of Saddam Hussein's elder son Uday - set on fire. Television pictures showed people kicking images of Saddam Hussein and carrying off everything from elaborate vases to office furniture. Our correspondent says people would not be behaving in this way unless they were sure Saddam Hussein's grip on the city had been broken. But he added that, although the Shias who had been repressed by Saddam Hussein's regime were welcoming the marines as agents of change, the US is not popular in Iraq. Other key developments: A spokeswoman for the International Committee of the Red Cross says the disorder means it is too dangerous to work in Baghdad. One Canadian Red Cross worker has died after his car was hit by gunfire on Tuesday. The US military also says its warplanes can fly anywhere over Iraq with impunity. British soldiers take the first steps to restore order to the southern Iraqi city of Basra as looting begins to subside. Journalists with the Arabic television stations Al-Jazeera and Abu Dhabi TV are trapped overnight in the offices of Abu Dhabi TV by fighting between US and Iraqi forces Two US airmen are missing after their F-15 fighter jet went down over Iraq on Sunday, the US Defence Department says Two injured US special forces soldiers are rescued near Baghdad and taken to hospital in Kuwait, Central Command announces Fighting elsewhere Iraqi men kiss US serviceman US forces were welcomed with joy by Iraqis Outside Baghdad, coalition forces have made a number of advances. US forces in central Iraq have captured the division headquarters of the Iraqi 10th armoured division without a fight after the division's 15,000 troops vanish, the BBC's Andrew North reports. He says the towns of Diwaniya and Amara have been secured, but resistance continues from Kut and Suq al Shuyoukh. And, elsewhere in central Iraq, he says the situation in Hilla is unclear and there has been no word from Ramadi and Falluja In the north, Kurdish sources say Kurdish fighters backed by US special forces have taken control of a strategically important mountain near the city of Mosul. In eastern Iraq, US marines are close to linking up with UK troops coming from Basra in the south, opening an eastern supply corridor to Baghdad after taking positions without resistance on Tuesday, a BBC correspondent says. 
The US military commander says there has been "rapid" and "dramatic" progress by coalition forces seeking to take control of Iraq. But General Tommy Franks acknowledged continuing stiff resistance in various battlefields and the loss of more US soldiers and equipment. These included the two-men crew of an Apache helicopter brought down in Karbala - a holy site about 100 kilometres (60 miles) south of Baghdad. Iraqi television has shown pictures of two men it described as the pilots. The images - which the US says violate regulations on war - were shown as more explosions shook the outskirts of Baghdad in the latest air raids on the city. The BBC's Paul Wood says the latest blasts were different from previous explosions - an indication that B-52 aircraft may be dropping huge payloads on Iraqi troops. 'In charge' General Franks was speaking after Iraqi television broadcast a rallying call from President Saddam Hussein to what he called his nation's "brave and heroic" people. Iraq's Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz said later that the regime's leadership was "in good shape" and Saddam Hussein was "in full control of the army and the country". IRAQ CAMPAIGN Map of Iraq Map: Military operations Iraq's Republican Guard Correspondents say General Franks, the commander of the US-led invasion, gave a deliberately upbeat assessment. "Progress toward our objectives has been rapid and in some cases dramatic," he told a news conference. And in London, UK Prime Minister Tony Blair told parliament: "There are bound to be difficult days ahead, but the strategy and its timing are proceeding according to plan." He said US forces had reached Karbala. "It is a little way from there that they will encounter the Medina division of the Republican Guard who are defending the route to Baghdad. This will be a crucial moment." Live pictures from Baghdad (video feed may be interrupted) The BBC's Michael Voss says there are believed to be three brigades of the elite Republican Guards between Karbala and Baghdad. They were subjected to sustained air attacks throughout Monday. One attack involved between 30 and 40 US helicopter gunships, US officials said. New alerts General Franks said there was now military action throughout Iraq. Reported operations include: US forces intensifying their assault on the key crossroads town of Nasiriya where there has been fierce fighting for control of two bridges on the invasion route from Kuwait to Baghdad British units opening fire with artillery on the southern city of Basra after what UK officials said were attacks by Iraqi forces. Iraqi officials say 77 civilians were killed. Guerrilla attacks by Iraqi forces dressed in civilian clothes around the strategic port of Umm Qasr Bombardments of Iraqi positions on the front between Kirkuk and the Kurdish-controlled town of Chamchamal Sniper attacks on British units in the south and around the Rumeila oilfields which are no longer considered safe US, UK and Australian special forces soldiers active in the west of Iraq General Franks said the continued, though "sporadic", resistance was to have been expected. He said coalition forces had now taken 3,000 Iraqi soldiers prisoner and that many others had deserted. In addition, half the channel leading to Umm Qasr had been cleared of mines, which would open the way for the humanitarian relief operation promised by US President George W Bush. UK soldier killed General Franks said he could not provide any update on coalition troops killed or taken prisoner by Iraq. But a UK military spokesman said British forces had suffered their first combat loss when a soldier was killed in al-Zubayr, south-west of Basra, on Monday. In his second televised address since the outbreak of war, Saddam Hussein said Iraqi forces were inflicting heavy losses on the invading units. Saddam Hussein speaking on Iraqi television The enemies are in real trouble now Saddam Hussein Saddam speech excerpts The Iraqi leader, looking relaxed and confident, promised that victory over US and British forces was near. "Victory will be ours soon," he said. "Iraqis will strike the necks as God has commanded you." At one stage, he read out a roll call of honour naming individual commanders and their locations, such as the southern port of Umm Qasr. But coalition officials - including UK Defence Minister Geoff Hoon - said the apparent references to recent events did not necessarily mean Saddam Hussein was alive. Angry reactions The US has meanwhile reacted angrily to Iraqi television footage showing the bodies of several American soldiers and their wrecked vehicles, and interviews with five captured survivors - one of them a woman. HAVE YOUR SAY A new government for Iraq is just around the corner Fredley Sisimia, Honiara, Solomon Islands Read more of your comments Iraq's Information Minister Mohammed Saeed Sahaf on Monday said the prisoners would be treated according to the Geneva Conventions. Iraq says 62 civilians have been killed and more than 400 wounded in various cities in the past 24 hours. United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan said he had been warned by the International Red Cross that "the people in Basra may be facing a humanitarian disaster". Water and electricity supplies have been disrupted there since Saturday. 
Fierce sandstorms have been holding up US-led forces in their advance towards the Iraqi capital, Baghdad. BBC correspondents travelling with coalition troops say units have been halted, with visibility reduced to just a few metres. However, the weather has not prevented US B-52 aircraft from dropping huge payloads of bombs south of the capital. The air strikes are targeting the Medina division of the elite Republican Guards, digging in for what both sides agree will probably be a decisive encounter, says the BBC's Paul Wood. The chairman of the US joint chiefs of staff, General Richard Myers, acknowledged that bad weather was slowing down the advance, but vowed that it would not be stopped. Major-General Victor Renuart of US Central Command said 1,400 air sorties against the Iraqi Republican Guard were scheduled for Tuesday. Iraq's Information Minister Mohammed Saeed al-Sahaf said 16 people had been killed and 95 wounded in Baghdad in the previous 24 hours. Command Sergeant Major Kenneth Preston - who oversees the Third Infantry Division - told the Associated Press news agency that about 500 Iraqis had been killed in the past two days by American infantry, tanks and mechanised units sweeping through the south of the country. Strikes cancelled The BBC's Gavin Hewitt - who is about 160 kilometres (100 miles) south of Baghdad - says all operations have ceased as a result of the storm. Rivulets of sand are flowing across the desert floor and everybody is hunkering down, he says. IRAQ CAMPAIGN Map: Military operations Iraq's Republican Guard However, at coalition headquarters in Doha, Qatar, a US spokesman said military activity was continuing with all-weather precision weapons. And in Washington, General Myers vowed to press on, regardless of the weather. But the coalition has been forced to call back some combat missions from aircraft carriers in the region, according to the Associated Press. A dozen aircraft were launched from the USS Harry Truman in the Mediterranean on Tuesday on two strikes but returned to the carrier a few hours later without reaching northern Iraq. Strike pilots from the USS Kitty Hawk in the Gulf switched to satellite-guided weapons for strikes. Captain Patrick Driscoll, commander of the air wing aboard the USS Kitty Hawk, said the weather would "affect our package a little bit, but not our ability to support the battlefield". Tough battles Lieutenant Colonel Laura Richardson, a Black Hawk pilot who commands the 101st Airborne Division's 5th Battalion said the sandstorms were very frustrating. "These things can come in so fast," he said. General Myers said the coalition anticipated that "as we get closer to Baghdad, the resistance will get tougher". "That's where their best units are, the so-called Republican Guard units. They're the best trained, best equipped and reportedly the most loyal to the regime, so we think the toughest fighting is ahead of us... and we're preparing for that," General Myers told ABC television. The approaches to Baghdad are flat, but there are also villages, small towns, orchards and crops, which could provide plenty of cover for Iraqi troops. The Iraqi authorities say the US-led forces will be in for a surprise when they reach cities, our correspondent there says. 
President George W Bush has refused to set a timetable to hand over ex-President Saddam Hussein to the interim Iraqi government. Mr Bush told reporters "appropriate security" must be in place first. The US and the Iraqi government do not want "lax security and for Saddam Hussein not to stand trial", Mr Bush said outside the White House. Iraq's prime minister has said he wants Saddam Hussein to be handed over before the 30 June transfer of power. Iyad Allawi told al-Jazeera television on Monday this would happen "within the next two weeks". His case is the same as all other prisoners of war Nadia Doumani ICRC Likely charges for Saddam The Red Cross has said he must be freed or charged before the end of June. The head of Iraq's special tribunal on war crimes, Salem Chalabi, said the country would "very shortly" have the proper facilities to detain Saddam Hussein. Mr Chalabi said the Iraqi authorities were also preparing to issue arrest warrants for the country's former rulers. The US-led coalition would hand them over "provided we show arrest warrants based on reasonable grounds", he told the French news agency, AFP. POW rules The Red Cross insisted on Sunday that the former Iraqi leader, designated a POW, cannot continue to be held by US forces after the conflict ends. "His case is the same as all other prisoners of war," said Nadia Doumani, who speaks for the International Committee of the Red Cross in Baghdad. Abu Ghraib jail The US expects to hold thousands of Iraqis after 30 June Geneva Conventions state that if POWs are only being held because they are enemy combatants - not charged with any crime - they have to be released when the conflict ends. "Saddam Hussein can be convicted for war crimes, for crimes against humanity... then he can be tried and prosecuted," said Ms Doumani. "If he is not charged, then the law says that at the end of war, of occupation, he should be released," she added. HAVE YOUR SAY Can we really trust a country which ignores the Geneva convention when it feels like it? Stephen R, UK Send us your comments Saddam Hussein has been held at an undisclosed location since his capture by US forces in December and is being interrogated by the CIA and FBI. He is expected to face charges of genocide and crimes against humanity. The ICRC has paid two humanitarian visits to check the conditions under which he is being held. The US army has said it will transfer up to 1,400 prisoners to Iraqi custody before 30 June - or release them entirely. However, it plans to continue holding between 4,000 and 5,000 prisoners whom it has deemed a threat to the coalition. About 400 prisoners were freed from Abu Ghraib on Monday and dozens of others have been informed of their impending release. 
The search for Iraq's suspected weapons of mass destruction is being stepped up as international pressure mounts for the coalition to produce evidence that would support its decision to wage war on Iraq. A task force of more than 1,300 experts has been formed in an expansion of efforts to find proof that Iraq had a program of chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear weapons. The Iraq Survey Group comprises experts from the United States, Britain and Australia. Between 250 and 300 of those team members -- including some inspectors who were in Iraq before U.N. teams were expelled in 1998 -- will visit suspected weapons sites, said U.S. Maj. Gen. Keith Dayton, who will lead the team. Dayton estimated that slightly fewer than 200 U.S. personnel have so far checked about a third of Iraq's suspected weapons sites. Dayton said his team would be better prepared to respond quickly to intelligence reports and would no longer simply check off a list of suspect sites. "The Iraq Survey Group represents a significant expansion in the hunt for weapons of mass destruction," he said, adding that it would be "a deliberate process and a long-term effort." Russia -- which opposed the U.S.-led war on Iraq -- on Friday urged the coalition to give an early account of the WMD search. "We expect our U.S. and British colleagues to present this information in the nearest future," Itar-Tass news agency quoted Russia's U.N. ambassador Sergei Lavrov as saying. Lavrov said a briefing by chief U.N. weapons inspector Hans Blix to the Security Council on Thursday would offer a good opportunity for the United States and Britain to present their latest findings. "After all, we are working for a common cause, and it is absolutely clear that to draw a line under the Iraq problem one must take into account both what the coalition is doing there and assessments by (U.N. monitors)," he said. U.S. President George W. Bush will meet Russian President Vladimir Putin in St. Petersburg on Sunday as part of a trip aimed at mending ties with European countries that opposed the Iraq war. (Full story) Australian Defense Minister Robert Hill said Saturday the purpose of the expanded search team was to get the full picture of the WMD situation in Iraq. Speaking at an Asian Security Conference in Singapore, Hill said the search was already yielding evidence but "whether these so-called smoking guns as such can be found, I don't know." "I've no doubt at all that the picture at the end of this process will be of somebody who believed in weapons of mass destruction as a strategic tool ... and was clearly prepared to use them," Hill said. IAEA to return next week Meanwhile, the International Atomic Energy Agency plans to send a team to Iraq for the first time since the end of the war to conduct a safety inspection at an Iraqi nuclear facility that might have been looted, an agency spokesman said Friday. IAEA spokesman Mark Gwozdecky cautioned: "These are not weapons inspections. "We are planning to send a team to Iraq tentatively next Wednesday, June 4, with the purpose of verifying nuclear material held at the Tuwaitha Nuclear Research Center," Gwozdecky said. "This work flows from Iraq's obligations under the nuclear non-proliferation treaty," he added. IAEA Director General Mohamed ElBaradei told CNN on Friday: "We don't know what to expect. We have seen a lot of reports about looting. We are going to focus on nuclear materials that would [be] under verification. The coalition, however, says that they will take care of the safety and the security of radioactive sources. "I would, again, continue to say that we are ready to help in case our help is needed." 
An Iraqi interim deputy foreign minister, Bassam Qubba, has been killed in an attack in the capital, Baghdad. A foreign ministry spokesman said unidentified gunmen fired on his car in al-Azimiya district on Saturday morning as he was on his way to work. Mr Qubba, the ministry's senior career diplomat, was shot in the stomach. He was taken to hospital but died shortly afterwards, the spokesman said. His driver was also hurt but there are no details so far of his injuries. The foreign ministry spokesman said he was shocked but not surprised by the murder of Mr Qubba. He expected such attacks to increase as the handover to the interim government on 30 June neared. BBC regional analyst Attila Kulcsar says the killing underlines the challenge facing Iraq's new government, which has been given legitimacy by the United Nations but now faces the test of whether it can do anything to curb the violence. Armed Iraqi groups are determined to derail the process with attacks on Iraqi security forces and politicians who they see as collaborating with US-led occupying forces, he adds. However, radical Shia cleric Moqtada Sadr - whose militia has fought US forces since March - has now issued conditional support for the interim Iraqi government, which he earlier rejected as a US puppet. He has also urged his supporters to stop attacking Iraqi security forces. Earlier attack The attack on Mr Qubba was the second on members of the interim government in the last four days. On Wednesday, Deputy Health Minister Ammar Safar escaped an attempt on his life in the same district while he was on his way to the health ministry. Gunmen opened fire on his car and then fled the scene as Mr Safar's guards returned fire. Mr Qubba, 60, was one of several deputy foreign ministers, and was responsible for legal issues. He had served as the acting chief of the Iraqi mission to the United Nations in New York and as the Iraqi ambassador to China. Azimiya is a predominantly Sunni Muslim district whose residents were strong supporters of Saddam Hussein's regime before it was toppled by US-led forces last year. 
The U.N. Security Council voted Thursday in favor of a resolution that lifts sanctions against Iraq after almost 13 years and puts the United States and Great Britain in control of the country until a new government is established. Fourteen of the 15 Security Council members approved Resolution 1483; Syria's U.N. ambassador, Mikhail Wehbe, was not present. "The lifting of sanctions marks a momentous event for the people of Iraq," said John Negroponte, U.S. ambassador to the United Nations. "After more than a decade of being frozen out of the world economy, it is time for the Iraqi people to benefit from their natural resources." The 12-page resolution will dismantle the oil-for-food program in six months and will lift all sanctions imposed on Iraq since 1990 except those on weapons. Diplomats lauded the resolution as a victory for the Iraqi people, and the vote also marks a key win for the United States and Great Britain, which will retain significant control in Iraq with the backing of the international body. Under the resolution, Iraq's oil proceeds will go into a development fund with international monitoring, but the United States and Britain would have the authority to use the money for reconstruction. The oil money also will be temporarily immune from legal claims. U.S. officials have said they are concerned that Iraq's creditors, who say they are owed some $400 billion, might want some part of the revenue. The resolution will be reviewed after a year, a step sought by Germany and France so that the U.S.-led power of authority would not be open-ended. The resolution will end the effective control of the U.S.-led coalition once that authority can be turned over to an internationally recognized Iraqi government. The time frame for the transfer has not been specified. L. Paul Bremer, the U.S. civil administrator in Iraq, said Wednesday that an Iraqi national conference probably won't meet until July to choose an interim government. To facilitate the creation of a new Iraqi government, the resolution creates a mandate for a special representative of U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan. The representative will report to the Security Council. France, Russia and Germany led the U.N. opposition to the U.S.-led war in Iraq. Representatives from the three nations praised the resolution, which shows "there is a vital role to be played by the United Nations," U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell said, speaking in Paris, France, before the G8 summit. "[The resolution] was a compromise, but to make it possible, all participants made steps to accommodate," said Sergey Lavrov, Russia's ambassador to the United Nations. "In this resolution, we have left behind the divisions of the past for the sake of the people of Iraq," said Gunter Pleuger, Germany's U.N. ambassador. "It is not in a perfect way, but it is in an appropriate way," said Jean-Marc de la Sabliere, France's U.N. ambassador. "What we have to underline today is that the council is united." However, the Security Council has not agreed on the issue of weapons inspectors. The resolution leaves the door open to the resumption of U.N. weapons inspections, something France and the inspectors themselves support. "The verified disarmament of Iraq remains our shared objective," de la Sabliere said. "[The resolution] preserves the role of UNMOVIC and of the IAEA." The U.N. Monitoring, Verification and Inspection Commission and the International Atomic Energy Agency are the two U.N. agencies in charge of seeking Iraq's alleged weapons of mass destruction before the U.S.-led war. "The international inspectors alone can, in due course, reassure the international community that that objective has been attained," de la Sabliere said. Negroponte said the council has reached "no decision" on the issue. "One of the issues that will be taken up in the future is the mandate of UNMOVIC and the IAEA," he said. 
Iraq's new Prime Minister, Iyad Allawi, says he has reached a deal to disband militias that opposed Saddam Hussein. About 100,000 fighters will either join the security forces or return to civilian life, Mr Allawi said. However the pact does not cover the Mehdi Army militia loyal to radical cleric Moqtada Sadr and observers say it is unlikely to affect the uprising. Meanwhile at least two people were killed as blasts rocked a mosque in the militia's stronghold of Kufa. About 10 others were hurt and a compound surrounding the mosque was damaged in the blasts, after ammunition used by fighters loyal to Mr Sadr apparently caught fire, witnesses said. A statement by the US military said there were no US forces near the mosque when the explosions occurred, around 1100 local time (0700 GMT). But Iraqi police who tried to provide assistance were fired on by unknown attackers within the mosque, it said. Iraqi officials said firefighters at the scene took two-and-a-half hours to extinguish the blaze, which left two walls of the mosque "completely blackened". Mr Sadr regularly gives sermons in the mosque. New pressure Nine political factions - most of them represented in Mr Allawi's interim cabinet - agreed to disband their associated militias by January 2005, when elections are due. Iyad Allawi Those that have chosen violence and lawlessness.. will be dealt with harshly Iyad Allawi They include the Kurdish peshmerga militias and the Badr Brigade of the Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq, a Shia group. But the agreement does not include the Shia Muslim Mehdi Army - fighting US-led forces in bloody battles around Kufa and other cities, including Najaf - or Sunni insurgents in central Iraqi cities like Falluja. "As of now, all armed forces outside of state control, as provided by this order, are illegal," the prime minister said. "Those that have chosen violence and lawlessness over transition and reintegration will be dealt with harshly." The BBC's Caroline Hawley in Baghdad said the announcement was designed to signal the new government's intention to put pressure on the militants. 
In a move aimed at eliminating remnants of Iraq's former regime, U.S. authorities Friday dissolved the Iraqi Armed Forces, the ministries of defense and information and other security institutions that once supported Saddam Hussein's rule. An American senior coalition official said the move effectively disbands the Republican Guard and Revolutionary Command Council and cancels any military ranks or other designations conferred by the previous regime. It also puts an estimated 350,000 to 400,000 soldiers out of work, along with an estimated 2,000 Information Ministry employees. Military members who previously held the rank of colonel and higher will not be entitled to severance packages and cannot work for the new Iraqi government once it's established. Any soldier below the rank of colonel will be eligible to enlist in a new army. (Full story) In addition, coalition forces soon will implement an arms control program aimed at reducing the number of weapons on the streets in Iraq, U.S. Army Lt. Gen. David McKiernan said Friday. McKiernan, who led the ground war in Iraq, said the coalition will set up "designated locations" for Iraqis to hand over automatic and other heavy weapons. Iraqis, however, will be allowed to keep small arms for home protection, he said. "A detailed implementation plan is in the works," McKiernan said. "We're prepared to execute it soon after we receive the go-ahead." McKiernan said the measures also would prohibit concealed weapons and celebratory fire. 
US forces raided a northern Iraqi town near Kirkuk overnight, possibly in search of a top Saddam Hussein deputy. The target seems to have been Izzat Ibrahim al-Douri, the highest ranking regime official still at large other than Saddam Hussein himself. A member of Iraq's governing council told the BBC he had been captured, but there has been no confirmation. The BBC's Nick Childs at the Pentagon says officials there could not verify the story, but did not deny it either. He says one official said he was "sceptical" about the report. The US military has not commented on the raid, which an Iraqi official called the largest ever in the region. The US has a $10m bounty on Mr Douri, who it accuses of being one of the key organisers of the insurgency around Samarra and Tikrit. Insurgency Saddam Hussein biographer Simon Henderson told the BBC that the capture of Mr Douri would be "a considerable victory for the Americans and a considerable defeat for the insurgency". If you have forgotten Halabja, we are ready to repeat the operation Izzat Ibrahim to the Kurds, reminding them of chemical attacks they suffered Saddam's right-hand man Douri family captured The French news agency AFP said Mr Douri's eldest son Ahmad has been commanding two insurgent brigades of 250 men each. Ahmad is receiving instructions and funds from his father, AFP reported, citing an Iraqi police official. The unnamed official said several members of the brigades had been captured in the overnight raids in the town of Hawijah, 45km (30miles) west of Kirkuk. One of Mr Douri's wives and a daughter were detained last week, along with the son of his doctor. Disputed battle The raid comes amid an ongoing dispute about a battle in Samarra on Sunday. The US says as many as 54 people were killed when two American convoys came under attack in the city, but morgue officials say they handled only eight dead. US Brigadier General Mark Kimmett has said the military's figures are only estimates, based on what he called battlefield reports. NOVEMBER DEATHS IN IRAQ US troops: 79 Non-US forces: 26 Foreign civilians: 6 Iraqis killed by insurgents: At least 32* Iraqis killed by coalition troops: At least 64* *No official statistics are kept for Iraqi deaths No Americans were killed in the battle, the fiercest since George Bush declared major combat operations at an end on 1 May. The convoys that came under attack were carrying new Iraqi banknotes. The battle rounded off a month that saw the highest number of US casualties in the country since the war. A US soldier was killed by a roadside bomb on Tuesday as a convoy left Samarra, military sources said. Close to Saddam Mr Douri, the possible target of Monday night's raid, was one of Saddam Hussein's closest and most trusted associates. Mr Henderson, the Saddam Hussein biographer, said Mr Douri is likely to have been in touch with the deposed Iraqi leader - and might know where he is. But he said it is not clear that Mr Douri would voluntarily tell the Americans that information even if captured alive. He is rumoured to be in poor health, and is known to have suffered from leukaemia in the past. Mr Douri was one of the key plotters who carried out the coup that brought the Baath Party to power in 1968. In later years he served as the Iraqi leader's number two in the powerful Revolution Command Council, as vice-chairman. He is the King of Clubs in the US "most wanted" deck of cards issued to help identify former regime members. 
The International Red Cross has urged US forces to restore the Iraqi capital's power supply and other basic services as the threat to public health grows daily. Roland Huguenin-Benjamin of the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) told the BBC that less than half of the city's hospitals were functioning - the rest had been ransacked by looters. "There has to be a civil administration, it should be empowered and start working, the sooner the better," he said. Despite the general breakdown of law and order there have been some successes in the hunt for regime fugitives - the latest being the arrest of the former finance minister, Hikmat Ibrahim al-Azzawi. Iraqi police captured him in Baghdad and handed him over to US marines on Saturday. CAPTURED IRAQI LEADERS (AS RANKED BY US FORCES) 24. Samir al-Aziz al-Najem 45. Hikmat Ibrahim al-Azzawi 51. Watban Ibrahim al-Tikriti 52. Barzan Ibrahim al-Tikriti 55. General Amir al-Saadi (surrendered) Iraq's most wanted A Central Command spokesman, Captain Stewart Upton, said Mr al-Azzawi "could have information on the locations of money that belongs to the Iraqi people". He is number 45 on the coalition's list of 55 most wanted Iraqi officials, and the eight of diamonds in the US forces' pack of cards featuring them. Two more suspects have surrendered to US forces. US officials named them as Imad Hussein Abdallah al-Ani, said to have been involved in Iraq's suspected nerve gas programme, and Khala Khadr al-Salahat, an "international terrorist" belonging to the Palestinian Abu Nidal organisation. US redeployment US marines involved in seizing Baghdad have now withdrawn from the city, handing over to regular US Army troops, who are said to be more familiar with peacekeeping and reconstruction duties. But, in a further sign of chaos, looters can now be seen selling stolen weapons and ammunition - including Kalashnikov assault rifles - openly on the streets. Correspondents say much of Baghdad still has no running water. MIDDLE EAST AFTER SADDAM The after-effects of the war for the region The lack of sewage treatment and garbage collection is posing health problems, Mr Huguenin-Benjamin warned. "One of the major sewage treatment plants in the city was damaged in the war, then looted. It is in urgent need of maintenance and repair - otherwise there is a very serious health hazard if sewage is not treated properly in the hot summer." Despite the general chaos, doctors are returning to hospitals and working without pay, he said. But the lack of electricity means that medicines cannot be refrigerated and much hospital equipment lies idle, he said. The UN children's fund Unicef says piles of rubbish are accumulating at the hospitals and up to 70% of patients at the children's hospital now have diarrhoea. Meanwhile, reports say the first major convoy of food aid has arrived in Baghdad from Jordan. The flour and other goods will be stored in warehouses until distribution can be arranged. Anti-US feeling The BBC's Caroline Hawley in Baghdad says Iraqis remain deeply suspicious of American motives, noting that the oil ministry is one of the few government buildings not to have been looted. Mass demonstrations against the US presence are a daily occurrence, she says. A prominent Iraqi exile, former Foreign Minister Adnan Pachachi, has spoken out against the US Government awarding big reconstruction contracts for Iraq. "No one has the right to commit Iraq to obligations and costs. Only an Iraqi government can do that," he said in Kuwait. Foreign ministers of the six states which border Iraq, plus Egypt and Bahrain, have called for US-led forces to pull out of Iraq as soon as possible. 
Is Washington's search for Saddam Hussein now in the home straight? Or is this simply what Iraq's American rulers would like us to believe? Financial markets are awash with rumours that Iraq's former leader has already been captured. Pentagon officials reply that they have nothing to say, but it seems there is a new American confidence in the wake of the deaths of Saddam's two powerful sons, Uday and Qusay. Past birthday party for Uday Hussein (second left) - US army photo Former bodyguard Adnan al-Musslit (right) was seized in Tikrit US forces are mounting relentless raids throughout the so-called "Sunni triangle" north of Baghdad, netting former regime officials and a wealth of documents, identity cards and Baath Party records. Even an album of family photos, complete with records of earlier encounters with Saddam Hussein, is taken away for examination. The pace of the search has increased dramatically. Coalition sources now speak of dozens of raids a day, with hundreds of arrests. The hunt brings together regular troops with shadowy groups of special forces and CIA officers, including an elite formation known as Task Force 20 - a secret unit also charged with unearthing evidence of those elusive weapons of mass destruction. 'Pieces of the puzzle' US troops invited the media to witness one of the latest, a pre-dawn operation Tuesday on houses in Tikrit - the heart of Saddam Hussein's former power base. Cameras rolled as troops used shotguns to blast their way into homes. US military officials say one of Saddam's senior bodyguards was captured. While women and children cowered and wailed, soldiers blindfolded their captives and examined papers and photos. Is an obsession with Saddam Hussein blinding Washington to other, more powerful forces which share the determination of old Baath party loyalists to throw the Americans out? "Each time we do something, we get information," said Lt. Col Steve Russell, of the US 4th Infantry Division, speaking at the scene. "Even if we don't get the people, we get documents. You just slap down the pieces of the puzzle and it keeps filling in." And when they find themselves in gun battles, he says, it is always with the same enemy. "As we kill or capture them, we learn that they are the sons of relatives of Saddam, or grandsons of cousins - things like that." But Saddam Hussein's state apparatus was huge and not everyone is convinced that his capture is just around the corner. "Certainly they're closing in, systematically eliminating the regime," says Middle East expert Adel Darwish. "But I'm sceptical that one or two raids will bring us closer to Saddam." Perhaps impressions are what count here. US troops, battered by recent losses (50 of their men killed since May) need to know that their hunt is not in vain. And Washington needs to convince Iraqis that it is safe to come forward and say what they know. 'Heavy-handed' But another lasting impression for many Iraqis will be the heavy-handed tactics the Americans use to pursue their quarry. Homes are damaged and in some cases destroyed. Innocent bystanders are killed by soldiers who seem to shoot first and ask questions later. SADDAM SONS KILLED Images of Uday and Qusay Hussein from a CD-Rom released by the US in Baghdad Parading the dead Iraqi leap of faith And is an obsession with Saddam Hussein - the ace of spades in their deck of cards of Iraq's "most wanted" - blinding Washington to other, more powerful forces which share the determination of old Baath party loyalists to throw the Americans out? From Iranian-inspired Shia militants to smugglers anxious to exploit post-war chaos, Iraq is full of people with a vested interest in making life difficult for the country's foreign invaders. It may well be that the net is closing on Saddam Hussein, but his removal won't signal the end of Washington's difficulties in Iraq. 
The countries neighbouring Iraq have called for the US-led forces that toppled Saddam Hussein's regime to pull out of the country as soon as possible. They also demanded the speedy formation of a representative government in the country, with a central role for the United Nations - something the United States has already excluded. It comes a day after thousands of Iraqis took to the streets of Baghdad to protest against what they saw as a foreign occupation of their country. The foreign ministers of the group of six states which border Iraq, plus Egypt and Bahrain, issued the statement after meeting in the Saudi Arabian capital, Riyadh. They also spoke out against the exploitation of Iraqi oil by foreign powers, and recent US threats against Syria. IRAQ'S NEIGHBOURS Saudi Arabia Iran Jordan Kuwait Turkey Syria Speaking after the meeting, Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal emphasised the need to maintain the unity and territorial integrity of Iraq - and said any outside interference in Iraq's internal affairs would not be tolerated. Prince Saud also said that UN sanctions against Iraq should be lifted as soon as there was a legitimate government in place in Baghdad. The US wants to see a quick end to the economic sanctions against Iraq, freeing up sales of its oil which would help to finance the country's reconstruction. In other developments: The UN says its first big food convoy to be sent to Baghdad, which had been due to arrive on Friday, is still about 100 kilometres (60 miles) from the city The Pentagon announces that it has released more than 900 Iraqi prisoners, leaving about 6,850 Iraqis in US military custody The UN refugee agency says more than 250 people trying to flee Iraq are stranded in no-man's land at the border with Jordan, waiting for permission to enter the kingdom Abu Dhabi television broadcasts what it says is the last known footage of Saddam Hussein - it shows a man who looks like him waving at a cheering crowd in Baghdad and was allegedly filmed on 9 April, the day US forces entered the city US Central Command in Qatar announces that Iraqi Kurds near Mosul have handed Samir al-Aziz al-Najem, one of the top 55 most wanted leaders of Saddam Hussein's regime, over to coalition forces An international team of zoologists and vets is delayed in Kuwait on its way to assess the conditions at Baghdad zoo, where many animals are without food. The Middle Eastern states came together in Riyadh in the hope that the US would heed their collective call for a say in post-war arrangements, says the BBC's Heba Saleh. But so far, she says, the US has resisted attempts from the region to influence its policy on Iraq, and there is little expectation that the Riyadh meeting will change that. Our correspondent says Iraq's neighbours are concerned it will fragment into three small states - Sunni, Kurdish and Shia - which will almost certainly destabilise relations with minorities in neighbouring countries. They also do not like the prospect of an Iraq dominated by the US, which would upset the fragile balance of power in the region and tip it further to Israel's advantage, she says. 'Legitimate government' Prince Saud said the eight countries wanted to see a legitimate Iraqi Government set up "immediately if possible", but pending this, the occupying powers should ensure security in the country, which has been engulfed by looting and chaos. MIDDLE EAST AFTER SADDAM The after-effects of the war for the region "[The ministers] underlined the obligations of the occupying powers under the fourth Geneva Convention to maintain security and stability... and underlined their obligation to withdraw from Iraq and allow Iraqis to exercise their right to self-determination," the joint statement said. Iraq's neighbours also said they were ready to contribute to the reconstruction of the country. In their statement, the ministers said the Iraqi people "should administer and govern their country by themselves, and any exploitation of their natural resources should be in conformity with the will of the legitimate Iraqi government and its people. "Now Iraq is under an occupying power and any request for lifting sanctions must come when there is a legitimate government which represents the people... and which can comply with its duties toward lifting sanctions." Iraqi opposition leader Ahmad Chalabi - widely believed to be the Pentagon's favourite to lead post-war Iraq - has said an Iraqi interim authority could begin to run the country in "weeks rather than months". The ministers also condemned US threats against Syria for allegedly harbouring members of the ousted Iraqi regime and developing chemical weapons. They urged dialogue to promote regional stability. 
Under fire, CIA chief George Tenet went behind closed doors Wednesday on Capitol Hill to face senators who are probing the reliability of intelligence information about Iraq. Tenet last week took responsibility for allowing a since-discredited line in President Bush January State of the Union address to remain in the speech. The statement claimed deposed Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein sought to buy uranium from Africa. The information -- which was used to underscore Iraq's interest in developing nuclear weapons -- was attributed to British intelligence. Democrats have used the uranium issue to question whether the Bush administration secured public backing for war in Iraq on the back of false information. And some Republicans say the president was poorly served by the CIA. "I have some very serious questions about what I think (is) one of the most important issues there could be, which is the credibility of the president of the United States," Sen. John Edwards of North Carolina, a Democratic presidential candidate, said going into the hearing. Sen. Olympia Snowe, R-Maine, said it was clear that the CIA's vetting of intelligence and what was passed onto the president was faulty. "It's failed the system and the process failed the president, and it failed the country," Snowe, another panel member, said. Tenet is speaking before the Senate Intelligence Committee, which is privately reviewing the use of U.S. intelligence before the war. Separately, the House Intelligence Committee will hold a public hearing next week on intelligence matters related to Iraq. Democrats are pressing for an open investigation, and even some Republicans say the administration needs to better explain how an assertion about Iraq based on questionable intelligence made its way into a major presidential speech at a time when Bush was trying to rally support for military action against Iraq. "This is a fact-finding mission we're going to be on," Republican Sen. Saxby Chambliss of Georgia, a member of the committee, told CNN Wednesday. Noting that the CIA removed a similar uranium claim from a speech Bush gave in Cincinnati, Ohio in October because it did not have confidence that the U.S. intelligence was accurate, Chambliss asked, "If they took it out in October, allowed it in January, then why did they? Why has nobody been forthcoming since January if, in fact, the information was not correct?" The White House has been trying to lower the heat surrounding the uranium statement, but Democrats have used it to broaden criticism of the administration. Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Massachusetts, said Monday the United States went to war Iraq "under false pretenses." In a scathing speech, Kennedy faulted both the administration's justification for war and its handling of Iraq's reconstruction after Saddam's fall from power. "They have undermined America's prestige and credibility in the world," Kennedy said in a speech delivered at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies. Michigan Sen. Carl Levin, the top Democrat on the Senate Armed Services Committee, agreed. "The misleading statement about African uranium is not an isolated issue," he said. Levin said Bush's statement was "one of several questionable statements and exaggerations" in the buildup to war. "It is therefore essential that we have a thorough, open and bipartisan inquiry into the objectivity, credibility and use of U.S. intelligence before the Iraq war," Levin said in a Senate floor speech. The 16 words Tenet took responsibility last week for allowing the uranium line -- or "the 16 words" as Republicans have called the issue -- to remain. "The president had every reason to believe that the text presented to him was sound. These 16 words should never have been included in the text written for the president," he said. "I am responsible for the approval process in my agency." The 16 words: "The British government has learned that Saddam Hussein recently sought significant quantities of uranium from Africa." Bush on Monday told reporters he had "darn good intelligence" on Iraq despite the discredited uranium line. National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice told CNN's Wolf Blitzer: "It is unfortunate that this one sentence, these 16 words, remained in the State of the Union, but this in no way has any effect on the president's larger case about Iraqi efforts to reconstitute the nuclear program, and most importantly in the bigger picture of Iraq's weapons of mass destruction program." House Majority Leader Tom DeLay, R-Texas, dismissed the escalating attacks from Democrats as partisan politics. "They think if they just get a little bit angrier, and a little bit meaner, and a little bit louder, the American people will start hating the president as much as they do," DeLay said in a statement. But criticism of the administration is not strictly partisan. While Republicans generally have been more supportive of the administration, a few have said it needs to further address the question of pre-war intelligence on Iraq. "It wasn't just the CIA involved here," said Sen. Chuck Hagel, R-Nebraska. "We had the vice president and his office involved, [Defense Secretary Donald] Rumsfeld, Condi Rice, [Secretary of State Colin] Powell's people. This wasn't just a one-man show." Hagel voted to give Bush the authority to go to war with Iraq, but he told reporters last week the administration's case for war was looking "weaker and weaker." He told CNN: "There's a cloud hanging over this administration." 
Iraq's new governing council voted Tuesday to set up a special court with power to try ousted Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein and members of his regime for genocide and other war crimes, according to a spokesman for a former opposition group. The council will begin looking for judges who do not have ties to the former regime, so that the court can be seated "as soon as possible," said Entifadh Qanbar, a spokesman for the Iraqi National Congress, one of the seven political groups represented on the council. "The 55 who are on the [U.S.] list of the most-wanted [Iraqis] would be tried before this court for war crimes," said Qanbar, adding that others could be charged as well. In New York, a United Nations spokesman said a delegation from the council would address the Security Council probably next Tuesday, raising some tricky diplomatic issues since six diplomats from Saddam's regime still hold Iraq's U.N. credentials and occupy the country's mission. While the Security Council is likely to agree to let the delegation sit at the council table and address it, the United States as the sovereign or occupying power in Iraq must decide "under what banner" they will come, according to a U.N. official. "Will they be here for the U.S. or the coalition or a delegation of the governing council of Iraq? Or will they be Iraqi delegates? The U.S. has to decide how they want to handle it," the official said. During its third day of meetings Tuesday, the Iraqi council also discussed rules of procedure and a method for determining council leadership. Among the ideas debated were a rotating presidency and multiple presidents, but the group arrived at no conclusions. In addition, the council created a committee to restore properties illegally seized by the Saddam regime, Qanbar said. The 25-member council, originally planned as an advisory council, was granted more executive powers to expedite the transition of power from the U.S.-backed Coalition Provisional Authority to Iraqis. (List of members) Other items of business will be establishing a constitution -- leading to national elections -- and appointing ministers and diplomats. U.S. civilian administrator L. Paul Bremer told reporters Tuesday that once the constitution is approved in a referendum, elections will be held and "the coalition's job will be done. We have no desire to stay a day longer than necessary." "The timing of how long the coalition stays here is effectively in the hands of the Iraqi people," Bremer said. The delegation going to the United Nations next week may include Akila Al Hashami, a member of Iraq's foreign ministry, Adnan Pachachi, a former Iraqi foreign minister who now represents the Iraqi Independent Democrats, and Ahmed Chalabi, head of the Iraqi National Congress, the U.N. spokesman said. If they were to ask the U.N. General Assembly to assume Iraq's seat, a formal request would likely have to come from the U.S.-led coalition as sovereign authority in the country. That might raise problems among the assembly's 191 members. The U.N. special representative on Iraq -- Sergio Vieira de Mello -- also is expected to address the Security Council next Tuesday. 
Coalition forces resumed air attacks on Baghdad late on Saturday in what a BBC correspondent said was some of the heaviest bombing since the war began. Anti-aircraft fire crackled into the night as blasts hit the south-east of the city and at least two bombs struck the centre. The Iraqi capital has been under air attack all day, with the information ministry targeted by cruise missiles in the morning. Saturday's air strikes comes a day after a blast in a popular city market - blamed by the Iraqis on coalition bombing - reportedly killed scores of people. AIR CAMPAIGN TO DATE Night attack on Baghdad Coalition has dropped 6,000 precision-guided bombs US has fired 675 Tomahawk cruise missiles Coalition warplanes have flown more than 1,000 missions Source: Pentagon figures on 29 March The new attacks - believed to involve B-52 bombers among other hardware - are targeting units of the Republican Guard defending the Iraqi capital. The BBC's Andrew Gilligan reports that much larger bombs are now being used and, as night fell in the city, the rumble of explosions was almost continuous. The top floors of the information ministry building, a base for many foreign journalists, were badly damaged by the Tomahawk missiles. Iraqi Information Minister Mohammed Saeed al-Sahaf said the strike was aimed at stopping the world seeing television pictures of the effects of coalition bomb attacks. Calls for revenge Pictures of the carnage at al-Nasser market in Baghdad's Shula district have been broadcast on Arabic satellite channels throughout the Middle East. IRAQ CAMPAIGN Map of Iraq Map: Military operations Children have been shown in agony with blood-soaked bandages on their heads and faces. In the hospital corridors, wailing women are seen prostrate with grief. Iraqi hospital sources said 55 people had been killed, while Mr al-Sahaf told Lebanese television that 58 people were dead and he expected the death toll to rise. If the number of casualties is confirmed, it would be the largest single loss of civilian life since the war began. The BBC's Rageh Omaar reports that the market is in a part of Baghdad which is almost exclusively Shia Muslim - a religious community seen by coalition strategists as potential allies. Our correspondents found relatives of the dead and injured demanding revenge on America and say the mood is one of extreme anger. Iraqi officials said the market was hit by an American cruise missile but coalition spokesmen insist that a misfiring Iraqi missile could have caused the deaths. Downing Street, citing intelligence chiefs, alleged on Saturday that Saddam Hussein had sacked the commander of Iraqi air defence because of "poor performance". 'No retreat' As coalition fighter planes pounded the Iraqi capital, defence officials denied calling a temporary halt to their advance on Baghdad. 'Enemy' tank shown on Iraqi television Iraqi television showed three abandoned 'enemy' tanks There have been suggestions that the advance had been delayed because of Iraqi resistance and overstretched supply lines from Kuwait, up to 500 kilometres (300 miles) away. The BBC's David Willis, who is with US marines about 160 kilometres (100 miles) south of Baghdad, says some troops have had their rations cut to just one meal a day. Iraqi satellite television has been showing pictures of three damaged American tanks and another vehicle abandoned near Najaf. A presenter said the crews had fled after a confrontation with Iraqis. American troops have been highlighting a success on the ground on Saturday with the seizure of a large arsenal in the war-torn town of Nasiriya, south of Baghdad. The BBC's Andrew North reports that marines found enough ammunition of all kinds to supply a sizeable force for weeks. Also at the site was what appears to be a decontamination unit and chemical weapons experts are on their way to investigate further.
President Bush declared Tuesday that rebuilding Iraq, following a U.S.-led invasion there, will be a "massive and long-term undertaking," one that he suggested would require further sacrifice. Appearing to address concerns about the rising number of U.S. military deaths in Iraq, Bush declared that anyone who attacks U.S. troops "will be met with direct and decisive force." And he said the U.S. commitment to Iraq would not be shaken, despite attacks from "scattered groups of terrorists" inside Iraq. "There will be no return to tyranny in Iraq," he said, adding that the U.S. presence was needed to assure that Iraq does not fall back into the hands of those loyal to deposed leader Saddam Hussein. The president vowed that the United States will not leave Iraq "before freedom is fully established," a line apparently aimed at some critics abroad and at home who have questioned the continued military presence in the country. A Republican congressman, Curt Weldon of Pennsylvania, Tuesday joined those urging that the troops leave Iraq as soon as possible. Speaking to a group of business executives in Washington, Weldon, a strong supporter of the war in Iraq, said one of Congress' "greatest concerns is that our government not get bogged down with our military for the long term." He added, "Yes, we want to guarantee stability in that country," but steps should be taken so that "as soon as possible we can bring our troops back home." But Bush emphasized that "the rise of Iraq, as an example of moderation and democracy and prosperity, is a massive and long-term undertaking." Speaking at a White House re-enlistment ceremony for service members, the president did not provide a specific timeline for when the United States would pull troops out of Iraq. He said about 230,000 Americans are serving in or near the country. Bush's comments were among his most extensive about Iraq since he declared an end to major combat on May 1. They come at a time of sporadic attacks against U.S. and allied forces in Iraq, and as some lawmakers, mostly Democrats, question whether the administration exaggerated the threat from Iraq before the war. There have been 65 U.S. military deaths since May 1. The Pentagon has classified 25 of them as "hostile." Bush's comments were noteworthy not only for what he said -- affirming his commitment to helping Iraqis build a democratic government -- but for what he did not mention. There was no reference to Saddam's fate -- the ousted Iraqi president remains unaccounted for more than two months after the fall of his regime following the invasion -- and just a passing reference to weapons of mass destruction. Leading into the war, the Bush administration had argued that Saddam was developing and harboring WMD. No such weapons have been found since the war, but the Bush administration has pointed to the discovery of centrifuge parts and tractor-trailers as evidence of Saddam's development of WMD. The president made it clear, however, that he believes the invasion of Iraq was justified. "We ended a regime that possessed weapons of mass destruction, harbored and supported terrorists, suppressed human rights and defied the just demands of the United Nations and the world," Bush said. "True monuments of Saddam Hussein's rule have been brought to light: the mass graves, the torture chambers, the jail cells for children." 
Family members of two soldiers found dead Saturday told Americans that the war in Iraq has not ended and spoke of the cost of freedom. Sgt. 1st Class Gladimir Philippe, 37, of Linden, New Jersey, and Pfc. Kevin Ott, 27, of Columbus, Ohio were found dead approximately 20 miles northwest of Baghdad, U.S. Central Command said, after an exhaustive search using helicopters, armored vehicles and tanks. Renisse Philippe, Gladimir's father, spoke to reporters in Linden, New Jersey. "Every day I returned back from work, I turned on the TV to see the news. But every day people die, people die," Philippe said. "The government says the war is over but the war is not over, that's what I say. People die every day -- almost every day." Ott's brother-in-law, Jim Pack, said Ott joined the military in January 2002, motivated by the September 11 terrorist attacks. "We understand very vividly that freedom is not free," Pack said. "The price is very high. And we understand that they have a job to do to ensure that freedom for us, and we are very proud of all of them." The government is expected to classify the deaths as "hostile," raising to 23 the total number of U.S. troops killed by hostile fire in Iraq since the end of major combat was announced May 1. Six British troops have died in hostile fire during the same period -- all in an incident this past week. Renisse Philippe said his son leaves behind a son and an ex-wife in Germany. He said his son had also been stationed in Russia and Haiti, and had much training and experience for facing hostile situations. Pack said Ott loved being a member of the military. "Absolutely loved it," Pack told reporters. "He'd actually come out and said it. He'd finally found his niche." Ott's family expressed condolences to Philippe's relatives and those of all the other soldiers who have died in the effort. A number of casualties occurred in recent days. In the latest reported assault on coalition forces, a U.S. soldier was killed and four were wounded Friday night when their convoy was attacked in a northern neighborhood of Baghdad, a U.S. military spokesman said. An Iraqi, who was working as an interpreter, was also wounded in the attack just before 11 p.m. local time (1900 GMT) Friday in the district of Thawra, the spokesman said. The wounded were taken to the Army's 28th combat support hospital in Baghdad. A day earlier, two U.S. troops were killed and eight wounded, the military said. One U.S. military official has called the rash of confrontations between Iraqis and U.S. personnel a "classic phase of insurgency." It was not immediately clear how Ott and Philippe died, but they were last reported traveling in a Humvee near a checkpoint that has been the site of attacks against U.S. forces. Twelve people were in custody in connection with the case, officials said. Also, on Saturday night two explosions were heard in Baghdad's Al Salihiya district, according to Iraqis and U.S. soldiers near the site of the explosion. There were no reports of causalities in the incident. U.S. soldiers guarding the Iraqi National Museum said the explosions came as a vehicle approached their position and sped away. Several Iraqi witnesses near the museum said two men driving in a red Volkswagen threw grenades in an attempt to hit a U.S. Paladin Howitzer tank that was adjacent to a small office building. The men missed and instead struck the front of the building that housed a travel agency and a restaurant. Neither of the stores were occupied at the time of the explosions which occurred at about 9:30 p.m. local time (1:30 p.m. EDT). Within a few days, Central Command will complete a review of the progress made in Operation Desert Scorpion, which has netted hundreds of suspects and large amounts of weapons, the Pentagon sources said. The U.S. military is considering whether to alter its current efforts to bring an end to the anti-coalition attacks, Pentagon sources said Friday. But Defense officials said there is no current plan to change the military strategy. Operation Desert Scorpion is the largest military deployment since the height of the Iraq war. Powell: 'We're going to stick with it' U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell, asked Friday about the mounting casualties, told reporters, "It's not possible yet to characterize what's happening in terms such as 'an organized insurgency' or 'it has a central nervous system directing it.' "We are seeing a combination of leftover Baathists taking it out on the soldiers who have come to provide security and hope for the Iraqi people, Fedayeen (Saddam's paramilitary fighters), (and) there are a lot of criminals who are loose." The region is also still gripped by looting, he added. But Powell said he is "quite confident" of the ability of chief U.S. Civil Administrator for Iraq Paul Bremer and Lt. Gen. John Abizaid, the next head of the U.S. Central Command taking over from Gen. Tommy Franks, "to impose security on the region in due course. But it will take some time, and regrettably there will be casualties." "I mourn for the loss of every young man or woman who puts his life or her life at risk and loses their life in the cause of freedom," he added. "But we're going to stick with it and it's going to take time and patience ... we will take whatever time is necessary. 
US raises pressure on Iraqi capital Iraqi soldiers drive round Baghdad The Iraqi regime maintain a clear presence in Baghdad Coalition commanders have promised more raids on Baghdad to drive home their claims that the Iraqi leadership is losing control. Saturday's first incursion by US ground forces into the city was intended to test Iraqi responses and future raids will be aimed at specific targets, coalition officials say. Republican Guard units protecting the capital are "dead" and constant air patrols are now possible, unhindered by Iraqi defences, they add. Streams of coalition tanks and armoured vehicles crossed the Euphrates river at dawn, as US forces reinforced their positions south-west of Baghdad. US-led forces have also moved on to target Tikrit, the ancestral home and stronghold of Iraqi President Saddam Hussein, according to military officials. But Iraqi authorities continue to deny the advances claimed by the coalition, including the first daytime foray by a column of US tanks and armoured vehicles across Baghdad's city limits. Information Minister Mohammed Saeed al-Sahaf said Iraqi forces had repulsed an American attack from the south, claiming: "We were able to chop off their rotten heads." State television read a statement from Saddam Hussein and then broadcast pictures of him and both sons at a military meeting, though the date and authenticity could not be established independently. Daylight message US Major-General Gene Renuart at the Central Command headquarters in Qatar said coalition forces were now able to enter any part of Baghdad any time they want. He said Saturday's raid into Baghdad from the captured international airport on the outskirts of the city sent an important message. PUSH FOR BAGHDAD Map: Fighting in Baghdad Baghdad: Iraq's nerve-centre Opposing forces "I think that it was very clear to the people of Baghdad that coalition forces were in the city," he said. "That image is important, and so I think being in the daytime was a very clear statement to the Iraqi regime as well that we can move at times and places of our choosing, even into their capital city." Coalition officials said about 1,000 Iraqis were killed as US troops battled their way to the outskirts of Baghdad. But western journalists, including BBC crews, who fanned out across the city of five million people later found no sign of US forces. They said the Iraqi regime was obviously still in control of Baghdad, with members of Fedayeen militia driving around firing weapons into the air. Iraqi television has announced that the authorities will impose a travel ban in and out of Baghdad from 6pm to 6am beginning on Sunday night. Fresh tactics A new stage of the air campaign, dubbed "urban close air support" has begun with at least 12 planes available 24 hours a day to respond quickly as soon as targets emerge. Some large explosions were reported in Baghdad overnight, including some strikes which left buildings still reverberating 30 minutes later, reports said. BAGHDAD SKYLINE US soldiers entering Baghdad Baghdad webcam: This service may be interrupted But the head of the US air campaign, Lieutenant-General Michael Moseley said bombing raids had begun to wane, having achieved many of their objectives. "The Iraqi military as an organised defence in large combat formations doesn't really exist anymore," he said. There were still Republican Guard soldiers around, he conceded, saying: "We haven't killed all of them but the ones that are still around are walking with a bit of a limp." The BBC's Pentagon correspondent, Nick Childs, says strikes on Iraqi forces around Tikrit are now being increased. Special forces have already taken control of the road north from Baghdad to Tikrit, which has been seen as a possible second power base for the Iraqi regime. Fierce fighting is also expected again at Karbala where an attempted incursion into the central city was stopped by strong resistance on Saturday. 
At least 11 members of the same family - mostly children - have been killed in a coalition air strike on a residential district in central Iraq, western news reports say. Hospital sources in Hilla, about 80 kilometres (50 miles) south of Baghdad, said they were among 33 civilians killed and more than 300 injured in the attack early on Tuesday morning. US Central Command said preliminary investigation had not "turned up any evidence of this alleged incident", but officials were continuing to look into it. On Monday, US soldiers killed seven Iraqi women and children at a checkpoint near the southern city of Najaf. US commanders are also investigating the Najaf killing, but their first reaction was to back the troops. Click for map of coalition advance on Baghdad Correspondents say the incidents will increase criticism of US-led troops who have already engaged Republican Guard forces defending Baghdad. The chairman of the US Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Richard Myers, said the troops would launch their big push "as soon as we're ready". Key military developments: Two Republican Guard divisions move to reinforce units defending Baghdad as they come under more intense bombardment HAVE YOUR SAY The strategy, if one can call it that, was flawed from the beginning Neil, USA Send us your comments Iraq says its forces have foiled a "landing attempt" by British forces near the northern city of Mosul. UK officials will neither confirm nor deny the incident The US says it has seized an Iraqi general, who has provided information on Iraqi deployments Revenge call The attack near Hilla began on Monday as part of the US-led advance towards Baghdad. IRAQ CAMPAIGN Map: Military operations Fact file: US supply lines Republican guard US forces said many Iraqis and at least one American were killed in fierce fighting there - the closest the clashes have been to the capital. Hilla hospital director Murtada Abbas said the bombing had targeted the Nader residential area. Correspondents reported seeing children wrapped in blankets on the floor of the hospital. Among them was Razek al-Kazem al-Khafaji, who said he had lost his wife, six children, his father, his mother, and two brothers. He said the family was fleeing fierce fighting in Nasiriya, further south, when they were attacked. "God take our revenge on America," he was reported as saying. Advance on Baghdad Correspondents travelling with advance units of coalition troops say they have already clashed with units of Republican Guards some 70 kilometres south of Baghdad. The BBC's David Willis says he has seen half a dozen Iraqi bodies by the roadside alone - the result of a fierce battle lasting 45 minutes a few miles east of the Saddam Canal. CASUALTIES OF WAR US: 43 military dead (including 11 in accidents, 2 under investigation), 17 missing UK: 26 military dead (including 15 in accidents, 5 to 'friendly fire') Iraq: Iraq: Military casualties not disclosed Civilian casualties: Nearly 600 dead Figures from respective governments The ground clashes - supported with air strikes and artillery - continued as coalition aircraft kept up an intense bombardment of Republican Guard positions on the southern outskirts of Baghdad. General Myers said US officials had seen dispersals of Iraqi troops "into neighbourhoods and things like that" - but no retreat. "They have moved some of their units around trying to reinforce. But some of them have been degraded to pretty lower percentages of combat capability, below 50% - I think at least two [division]," General Myers said. Other developments: US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld denies rumours of a ceasefire negotiation, saying the only thing to discuss is Iraq's unconditional surrender US Secretary of State Colin Powell is in Turkey on the first foreign trip by a senior US official since the war began. In a message read out on Iraqi television, Iraqi President Saddam Hussein calls on Iraqis to hit US and UK forces everywhere. Iraqi authorities say two buses carrying American and European "human shields" have been attacked by a US warplane on the Baghdad-Amman highway 
U.S. troops arrested the interim governor of Najaf on kidnapping and corruption charges Monday as they continued efforts to quell attacks on coalition troops in Iraq. The arrest of Abu Haydar Abdul Mun'im "demonstrates the coalition's determination to enforce the rule of law in Iraq," a statement from the U.S.-led provisional authority said. Mun'im's deputy will replace him as interim governor, the statement said. Mun'im is accused of kidnapping and holding hostages, pressuring government employees to perform financial crimes, attacking a bank official and stealing funds, the statement said. Details of the charges were not released. He was arrested at the request of Iraqi court officials in Najaf, south of Baghdad, and will be tried under Iraqi law, according to the coalition provisional authority. "They have been investigating these allegations for some time before concluding that there is sufficient evidence to warrant arrest," the authority's statement said. U.S. authorities have struggled to restore order in Iraq since ousting former leader Saddam Hussein in April. Remnants of Saddam's ruling Baath Party and other groups are blamed for attacks on coalition forces that have killed 23 Americans and six British soldiers since President Bush declared the end of major combat May 1. In the latest attack, Iraqis fired a rocket-propelled grenade at U.S. troops late Sunday in the central city of Fallujah, west of Baghdad. No troops were injured, but a free-lance sound technician for NBC was wounded and treated in an Army hospital after the attack, an NBC spokesman said. NBC identified the technician as Australian Jeremy Little. Shortly afterward, three civilians were killed when their truck slammed into a fire support vehicle responding to the attack, the U.S. military said. Soldiers from the Army's 4th Infantry Division conducted eight raids from late Sunday through Monday as part of Operation Sidewinder, the latest effort to put down remaining Iraqi resistance. Soldiers took 32 people in custody, seized 10 AK-47 rifles, two pistols and a mortar and impounded 8 million Iraqi dinars, U.S. Central Command said. Operation Sidewinder is focusing on what Central Command officials call "the nexus of paramilitary activity in central Iraq," a 70-mile (112-kilometer) swath of territory running from Baghdad north to Samarra. In one raid, a man whom U.S. troops identified as a Baath Party colonel was captured with five others, Central Command said. At the same time, soldiers from the 1st Armored Division moved through Baghdad, arresting 148 people as the Pentagon wrapped up another operation dubbed Desert Scorpion. That operation resulted in 1,300 arrests and the seizure of hundreds of weapons, $9 million in U.S. currency and 1.5 billion Iraqi dinars, said Gen. Richard Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Secretary of State Colin Powell said Monday that U.S. forces still face "pockets of resistance" in Iraq but said U.S. officials see no signs of nationwide, organized resistance. "I think as the situation improves, and as people see that the economy is starting and as the political process picks up and Iraqis start to take responsibility for their own future, I think this will come under control," Powell told NBC. 
 The U.S. military has launched a new operation in Iraq in an attempt to crush surviving Saddam Hussein loyalists and "paramilitary elements" believed to be behind a series of lethal attacks, officials said Sunday. Operation Sidewinder is spearheaded by members of the Army's 4th Infantry Division and includes ground, armor and air elements, according to officials familiar with the operation. Since President Bush announced the end of hostilities in Iraq on May 1, more than 20 Americans and six British troops have been killed by hostile fire. The operation was under way in an area of central Iraq from Baghdad to Samarra along the Tigris River, which U.S. Central Command said is "the location of several destabilizing influences in the region." Exile leader Ahmed Chalabi said his Iraqi National Congress believes Saddam has taken refuge in a "long and big area" about 150 miles long from northeast of Baghdad to the Euphrates Valley west of the city. Chalabi said he does not think Saddam is personally coordinating attacks but had put in motion a plan to fight U.S. forces after his ouster in April. "There is some evidence that it was formulated in writing before the war started, for after the war," Chalabi said. "And I think that Saddam had this plan done, and it's being implemented by the remnants of his regime." Officials told CNN more than 60 Iraqis have been taken into custody so far, along with a number of weapons and documents that may be of value to U.S. intelligence analysts probing the forces behind the attacks. Last week, Lt. Gen. John Abizaid -- the Bush administration's pick to replace Gen. Tommy Franks as Central Command chief -- told a Senate committee that U.S. troops also face opposition from fighters from other Arab and Islamic nations who have converged on Iraq. Another string of weekend raids was aimed at Islamic extremists in the northern city of Mosul, Central Command said. Soldiers from the Army's 101st Airborne Division Saturday detained 15 people and seized four rifles, a pistol, a grenade and an artillery shell, along with Baath Party documents and Republican Guard uniforms. Efforts to capture Saddam are more important than the pursuit of al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden, Republican Sen. John McCain of Arizona said Sunday. Speaking on CBS's "Face the Nation," McCain said: "There's very little doubt that there is at least some degree of organization amongst these activities that are going on, and there is no doubt that there are elements who are saying that Saddam will be back." Mounting casualty figures The most recent American casualties were two soldiers wounded when a convoy was attacked on a highway in Baghdad, U.S. military officials said. An Iraqi civilian was killed in the attack. The Americans were assigned to the 18th Military Police Brigade, the official said. The extent of their wounds is unknown. The convoy was hit by an unidentified explosive device as it traveled along Highway 8, a main road between Baghdad and the airport, a military official said. It came just hours after U.S. soldiers guarding the Iraqi National Museum in Al Salihiya were attacked Saturday evening as a vehicle approached their position and then sped away. Several Iraqi witnesses said two men driving a red Volkswagen threw grenades in an apparent attempt to hit a U.S. self-propelled Paladin howitzer positioned adjacent to small office building. There were no reports of casualties. Two soldiers were found dead Saturday about 20 miles northwest of Baghdad after an exhaustive search using helicopters, armored vehicles and tanks,U.S. Central Command said. Sgt. 1st Class Gladimir Philippe, 37, of Linden, New Jersey, and Pfc. Kevin Ott, 27, of Columbus, Ohio, were traveling in a Humvee near a checkpoint when military officials lost contact with them on Wednesday Ott's brother-in-law, Jim Pack, said: "We understand very vividly that freedom is not free," Pack said. "The price is very high. And we understand that they have a job to do to ensure that freedom for us, and we are very proud of all of them." It was not immediately clear how Ott and Philippe died, but 12 people have been detained in connection with the case, officials said. The U.S. government is expected to classify their deaths as "hostile," raising to 23 the total number of U.S. troops killed by hostile fire in Iraq since the end of major combat was announced May 1. The six British troops all died in a single incident last week. 
President George W. Bush told the world Wednesday night that the United States and its allies had launched a campaign to oust Saddam Hussein from Iraq and "free its people." Bush warned the nation that the conflict "could be longer and more difficult than some predict." But he assured Americans that "this will not be a campaign of half-measures, and we will accept no outcome except victory." Bush's address marked the second time the president has faced the nation with news that the United States is at war. The first came in October 2001 as Bush launched the war on terrorism and U.S. troops entered Afghanistan. (Full story) Bush said that "coalition forces will make every effort to spare innocent civilians from harm." But Bush warned that that goal may not be simple to reach. "Saddam Hussein has placed Iraqi troops and equipment in civilian areas, attempting to use innocent men, women and children as shields for his own military; a final atrocity against his people," Bush said. Earlier in the evening, a Pentagon official told CNN that cruise missiles were being fired against "a target of opportunity" -- a "decapitation attack" aimed at killing Saddam before the planned start of the war. Air raid sirens were heard in Baghdad at about 5:30 a.m. Thursday (9:30 p.m. Wednesday EST) about 90 minutes after the U.S. deadline for Saddam to step down or face a U.S.-led military attack. At 10:15 p.m. EST, the president spoke from the Oval Office for just over four minutes. Less than half an hour before Bush's address, White House spokesman Ari Fleischer announced that the president would speak on short notice. He said Wednesday night's actions were only the beginning of a "broad and concerted" military campaign to oust the Iraqi president and his regime. "American and coalition forces are in the early stages of military operations to disarm Iraq, to free its people and to defend the world from grave danger," Bush said. Bush said the United States has Iraq's best interest in mind as the invasion begins. "We come to Iraq with respect for its citizens, for their great civilization and for the religious faiths they practice. We have no ambition in Iraq, except to remove a threat and restore control of that country to its own people," he said. Bush also told Americans that "helping Iraqis achieve a united, stable and free country will require our sustained commitment." In closing, Bush said, "We will pass through this time of peril and carry on the work of peace. We will defend our freedom. We will bring freedom to others. And we will prevail. May God bless our country and all who defend her." 
U.S. troops were testing suspicious materials as possible chemical weapons agents at an agricultural complex in central Iraq, U.S. military officials said Monday. Samples of the materials are being studied, and no conclusive determination has been made, said Brig. Gen. Benjamin Freakly of the Army's 101st Airborne Division. The materials, stored in barrels and buried, had not been weaponized and might simply be pesticides, Freakly said. On Friday, elements of the 101st Airborne Division visited two sites in an area south of Baghdad near Karbala. One site had been used for military training and the other as an agricultural compound. At the military camp, tests found no conclusive evidence of chemical weapons being present. In fact, tests there indicated pesticides were likely present, Freakly said. At the agricultural compound, the division found 10 25-gallon drums and three 55-gallon drums buried within bunkers 4 to 6 feet deep, Freakly said. The 63rd Medical Company tested substances found in the drums to see whether chemical agents were present. Initial tests proved inconclusive, he said. Monday, a new, higher-level test was administered using special testing vehicles called FOX vehicles, Freakly said. Those tests indicated the presence of nerve and blister agents, but the tests sometimes show false positives, according to Freakly. The substances may be pesticides or they may be chemical agents that are "non-weaponized," he said. "It's a liquid chemical, but it hasn't been put in a delivery means or anything that could be dispersed against our soldiers." If it were weaponized, Freakly said, "We would see it in probably an artillery projectile or in an artillery missile, or perhaps in an aircraft bomb or something that the enemy would spray troops with." At the United Nations, Iraqi Ambassador Mohammed Aldouri was asked about the find and said any speculation about chemical weapons was American "propaganda." "We have no chemical areas," Aldouri said. "We say that several times and we underline that right now. We don't have chemical weapons." Freakly also said the 101st Airborne found a large cache of conventional weapons at the agricultural site. As part of Iraq's cease-fire agreement ending the 1991 Persian Gulf War, Baghdad promised to destroy all its weapons of mass destruction, biological, chemical or nuclear, and submit to United Nations weapons inspections. The Bush administration has insisted Iraq has not accounted for its alleged weapons of mass destruction. Asked whether it appeared that U.N. weapons inspectors had visited the site, Freakly said he would find it "hard to believe" that inspectors would have found the two sites, which are located behind a civilian complex near the Euphrates River. Former chief U.N. weapons inspector Terry Taylor said it is likely Iraq has stashes of chemical agents hidden at civilian sites "which they would pull out to fill munitions at the right time." It is too soon to tell whether that is the case in this instance, he added. Some soldiers involved in the raid at the military camp reported feeling ill, but it appears they were suffering from dehydration, Freakly said. They're all feeling fine now, he added. Asked whether the found materials were a "smoking gun," a military official at the Pentagon said, "It has potential." U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld declined comment on the find, saying more tests must be conducted. 
Iraq is unlikely to use chemical or biological weapons to defend itself from a U.S.-led invasion because world opinion would turn against it, chief U.N. weapons inspector Hans Blix told CNN Wednesday. "If they have any -- and still, that's a big if -- I would doubt that they would use it because a lot of countries and people in the world are negative to the idea of waging war," Blix said. "If the Iraqis were to use any chemical weapons, then I think the public opinion around the world would immediately turn against Iraq, and they would say, as well, that the invasion was justified." President Bush has given Iraqi President Saddam Hussein a deadline of 8 p.m. ET Wednesday to leave Iraq and go into exile or face attack by more than 250,000 U.S. and British troops massed in the region. Iraq has rejected the ultimatum. Even though top Iraqi leaders, including Saddam, could be in mortal danger from a U.S.-led invasion, Blix said pride may keep them from using poison gas against advancing allied troops. "Saddam Hussein has certainly figured himself to be a sort of emperor of Mesopotamia and the leader of the Arab world," Blix said. "So I think he very likely cares very much about his reputation." The United States and Britain accused Iraq of failing to comply with U.N. resolutions demanding it give up chemical and biological weapons, long-range missiles and any nuclear weapons program. They say Iraq must be disarmed -- by force, if necessary -- to prevent Saddam from arming terrorists with weapons of mass destruction. Iraq says it has complied with U.N. disarmament resolutions. Iraq showered U.N. with letters of explanation Blix said there are "still a lot of question marks" about whether Iraq has destroyed its weapons of mass destruction. "And I am among the people who are most curious to know whether they will find any or not," he said. Weapons inspectors worked in Iraq for three and a half months before leaving Tuesday for Cyprus after the U.S. ultimatum. Blix said Iraq offered them better conditions than earlier inspection teams and agreed to allow the destruction of many of its al-Samoud 2 missiles, which inspectors determined had a range beyond the 93 miles (150 kilometers) allowed in U.N. resolutions. On the other hand, he said, Iraqi officials did not provide much new information until February, after a massive U.S. and British military buildup was under way. "They sort of showered us with letters trying to explain this or that," Blix said. But even then, he said, "When we examine it, we find relatively little new material in it." 
Iraqi President Saddam Hussein appeared on television early Thursday morning, characterizing the U.S.-led military campaign as "criminal acts" and saying his nation would be victorious. "These days will go as God wills," Saddam said. "This is your share of dignity, of victory." Saddam appeared wearing a military uniform and gave Thursday's date, March 20, as evidence that the taped speech was made shortly before it was aired and not before the U.S. attack on Baghdad. (Speech transcript) "Draw your sword, I am not afraid," he said. "No one will be victorious if he is not a man and a brave man." The speech came about three hours after the U.S.-led coalition launched a strike, which Pentagon officials described as a "decapitation attack" to take out the Iraqi leader. More than 40 satellite-guided Tomahawk cruise missiles were fired from U.S. warships in the Red Sea and Persian Gulf, military officials said. It is very difficult to successfully target a single person on the ground in such a bombing, Pentagon officials said. In Saddam's quick appearance on television he struck a defiant tone as he read from handwritten notes. "We pledge that we will confront the invaders," Saddam said, adding that Iraqi resistance will cause the coalition to "lose any hope in accomplishing what they were driven to by the criminal Zionists and others with their agendas." "They will face a bitter defeat, God willing," he continued. "You will be able to achieve glory and your despicable infidel enemies will be defeated." Saddam urged Iraqis to rally in the cause of war. "Draw your sword and be not afraid," he said before chanting "God is great." He ended his speech saying, "Long live jihad and long live Palestine." 