IBM's T series is incredible! Mar 18 '01 Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Thin, light, blazing fast, awesome screen and great options! Cons Price...OUCH! The Bottom Line After shopping around for months and checking out every major brand, IBM still stands out as the best. Their reputation for quality and durability is without a doubt, unmatched. Full Review Introduction: I've been shopping for a notebook for about two months and I've had my eye on IBM's sleek T series. It's thin and light which makes it a great notebook for those who travel a lot or, like myself, take it to classes. Specs (Model 2647-4BU) and Comments: * 14.1" TFT (1024x768) The 14.1" TFT screen is easy on the eyes and is one of the biggest available on such a compact notebook. * PIII 800mhz This is almost the fastest Intel processor currently available for laptops. I believe the fastest is 850mhz. * 128mb RAM Plenty of RAM -- upgradable to half a gig! * 20GB HDD I won't be running out of space for a VERY long time! This laptop has more hard drive space than my desktop machine and my work machine. * 8x DVD / Floppy (swappable) This is my first DVD player/drive and I'm having a lot of fun with it. There is no hardware decoder but the machine is so fast that you don't really need one. There is only one drive bay but it is hot swappable (you can swap the DVD/floppy while the computer is on.) * 3com ethernet/modem combo No problems here -- the ethernet card works under Linux but I haven't tried the modem yet. I know that the Lucient modem that IBM puts in some of their Thinkpads is a Winmodem. I'm not sure about this one (it's a 3com card). Other comments IBM didn't skimp out on this laptop. Their reputation for quality shines in the T series notebooks. The top and bottom covers are titanium composite plastic, making it tough and lighter than most other notebooks. IBM is known for putting very solid feeling keyboards on their Thinkpads and the T series is yet another example of this. The trackpoint was a must for me as well! Their blue scroll button is very convenient. The status lights (hdd activity, numlock, capslock, power, battery, etc) are backlit and very easy to see in low light -- very nice! And here is something I've never seen on a notebook. A light to illuminate the keyboard in the dark! Seriously, there is a light just above the display that you can turn on to give yourself a little extra light to help you type. Pictures: I have a few pictures on my website: http://www.wubbie.org/pictures/thinkpad/ Please ignore the messy desk. :) If anyone wants to see some close up pictures or a shot of a certain part of the laptop, just e-mail me! Recommended Yes
I'm thinking this is a great laptop Feb 10 '01 Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Great screen, good amount of RAM, tech support is more than adaquate Cons locks sometimes The Bottom Line I'm very pleased with this computer, good display, good sound, etc. Full Review Value for Price: 9/10 The overall value for the price of this system is not the best. It comes with 128 megs of RAM, which is good. The display panel is more than adaquate... it gives you a brilliant display, and it's 12.1 in, which works well with it's theme of portability and sleekness. Display panel: 10/10 I can't knock the quality of the display, as it is brilliant. If they had taken the route of making 14.1, it would have just lost a lot in portability Sound: 8(10 w/quality speakers attached)/10 I was fairly impressed with the sound of the integrated sound. It is surprisingly full, and robust. It still sounds great with the internal speakers, but if you have a pair of quality BA speakers then it really shines. Battery Life: 10/10 I was very impressed with the dual battery support of this machine. It made it so recharging isn't daily thing like it is on many other laptops. I can actually go quite a while w/o recharging... impressive, Sony really nailed this feature! Reliability: 9/10 My system runs Windows 2000, which is inherently more stable than Win 9x, so I noticed crashes less frequently. In fact there were not many crashes at all. It is very stable, and maintains a rather high speed when other systems might get bogged down. Overall: 9/10 What a system. After many disappointing laptop purchases in my life finally one that met my high expectations. Thanks IBM. Recommended Yes
A Pleasure To Use Mar 15 '01 Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Light weight, overall design, reliability Cons Price The Bottom Line This is a winner. Full Review The IBM T20 is one of the most satisfactory machines I have had the pleasure of using. I believe it has been superseded by the T21 which appears to be the same but with enhancements such as more hard disk space and a faster processor; the machines can be compared at www.ibm.com. (Warning: The IBM web site is surprisingly difficult to navigate; a call to 1-888-SHOP-IBM ext.7000 might be just as good an idea as visiting the web site.) I bought the T20 model because it is light; I haven’t been disappointed. I think there is a big difference between 5 pounds and 8 pounds when you’re lugging it around. I like the T20’s 14" screen size vs. the 12" screen size of most lightweight laptops. On a crowded plane, I sometimes wish the screen were a bit smaller but that is only a fraction of the time I use the computer. The clarity of the images and fonts on the screen is excellent; I prefer it to CRT monitors. IBM has always been famous for the feel of its keyboards which, I suppose, grew out of its experience making the best typewriters years ago. The keyboard of the T20 is no exception, surprising for a laptop. It is a pleasure to type on, even for a hacker like me! Connection to the Internet couldn’t be easier. There are jacks in the rear for phone and Ethernet cable. I use both and like not having a PCMCIA card with the cable sticking out the side. There are PCMCIA slots, of course, but I haven’t had a reason to use them yet. Battery life is good but I’ve never seen it last over 3 hours at IBM would have you believe. I count on a good two hours of availability between charges. A few extras seem to be more useful than I would have expected. There are volume control buttons that I use often. There is a tiny, bright light above the screen that illuminates the keyboard which comes in handy sometimes on a darkened plane. The snooze function kicks in automatically and quickly when you close the cover. The DVD drive plays movies but I have rarely used it for that. I used the infrared port to transfer a number of files to another laptop; it worked very quickly and easily. The only disappointment is that I cannot use the scroll wheel on my mouse for some reason. The IBM TrackPoint, which is located in the middle of the keyboard, works very well and is excellent on a plane, for example, but I prefer a mouse otherwise and it would be nice to use its wheel. It is a pleasure to use a device that is well designed, looks good and functions so well. Recommended Yes
The new laptop with the cool new case by: elsyan (Tue Jun 6 '00) Pros: durable, solid machine, light and portable, powerful, many options Cons: low availability, high price Pick up the T20 and you can feel how sturdy it is. The new titanium (?) outside case feels more solid and metallic than in previous models. That feeling of solidness and reliability echoes through. The T20 is a robust, high quality unit that finally conquers the desktop. Here's my configuration: 4.6 lbs travel weight, 14.1" screen, 700 mhz pIII Speedstep, 128MB ram, 12GB, 8MB video, DVD, integrated 56k and 10/100 ethernet windows 2k as with all IBM's, a large variety of configurations are available all the way from this one (high end) to the low end w/ 24x CD, 13.3" screen, 650mhz processor, and windows 98 for about a thousand less. Physically the machine is intelligently laid out with large keys and my favorite IBM trackpoint device. Once you use one, you won't go back to a pad again, although I admit it does take getting used to. The colors on the screen are crisp and bright at any resolution. Also, the system sounds great. Yes, this means that this is the machine for you if you want to watch DVDs on the road. With w2k, the system boots up fast and is extremely stable. I had no problems getting any of my software to install and run. With average use I was able to squeeze out an impressive 3+ hours on the base battery on one charge. Not too shabby. As usual, I found that the extra "internet" buttons added by IBM don't help very much but they can be remapped to more useful tasks. One gripe is that the new ultraport connector takes up valuable port real estate from perhaps additional USB or other connectors. It remains to be seen whether or not IBM and other vendors will release significant equipment that will take full advantage of it. I haven't gotten a chance to use the S-video out jack but I've heard that it isn't completely up to part. I don't really see how useful it is, given the monitor out. Furthermore, the port replicator/dock are still rather klunky and the unit fits in the dock rather awkwardly. Stay away unless you really want to spend the extra $500. If you can find it and can afford it, this is truly the first machine that I've used that classifies as an ultraportable without any sacrifices (unlike equivalent models from Dell or Compaq that weigh much more). IBM support is as always top notch and helpful. Throw away your desktop (keeping that large 21" monitor !) because other than that, you won't need it again.
Expensive, but excellent Dec 22 '00 (Updated Dec 23 '00) Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Excellent build quality, lightweight, everything works out of the box Cons Light on application software, expensive Full Review OK, I think this is going to be long review, so brace yourself. I have been researching computers for 2 years now, and have never bought one because I've always had a laptop from work decided it would be too much of a hassle to maintain two machines, not to mention the fact that they become worthless in about 2 to 3 years with advances in technology. I do have a laptop even from my present employer, but nevertheless, I chose to buy one now because I thought I needed a machine to start storing personal data like pictures from my digital camera and other stuff. Even though this is my first computer, I've used several different laptops over the years that were given to me by my employers. I've used several models of Thinkpads a couple of years ago (forgotten their model numbers), then a Toshiba Tecra, an NEC Versa LX, and presently have a Thinkpad 600x. When choosing a computer I decided I needed a great screen (1024x768 TFT), portability, good build quality, a good warranty, at least a 10G hard disk, at least 128 MB RAM, and something with which to do backups. I really wanted a CD-RW drive, but I found that it wasn't available with most laptops running Windows 2000... I wanted Windows 2000 because of its stability. So, I decided not to worry about backups for the short term, but I hope to get a PCMCIA microdrive sometime in the future; they are available in sizes up 1 GB so I think that should work. I liked the T20 because it seemed to offer the best of all worlds. A close contender would have been the Sonys, but they lost out on weight and the tiny 1 year warranty that they offer. I didn't like the Dell's because they're heavy and they lack the aesthetics of the IBMs and the Sonys. I fantasized about the ultralights (like the Sony Z505 series, not Marlboros :-)), but decided that the screen is too small... I didn't want to be squinting all the time. I thought about desktops and the value they offer, but decided to go for a laptop so that I can take it with me on a trip if I so choose. Because laptops are somewhat more prone to problems that are very expensive to fix (such as an issue with the screen, or keyboard), it makes sense to get a long enough warranty that covers you through the expected "useful" life of the machine. The T20 comes with a 3 year warranty. I figure in 3 years technology will have moved ahead so much, that I'll probably need a newer machine anyway. So the 3 year warranty offers an adequate peace of mind. I've owned my T20 for about 4 weeks now. It took about 2 weeks to arrive from the time I ordered it. The T20 weighs in at 5 lbs, comes with a splendid 1024x768 pixel TFT 14.1" screen, and an excellent build quality of keyboard and chassis. I got a 128 MB memory upgrade (to 256 MB total), and added in the Mini PCI Ethernet/Modem combo card. The machine was easy to use right out of the box. When you power up, it guides you through a setup which should be easy to follow if you're familiar with Windows... I didn't consult any of the documentation so I'm not able to comment on how good it is. I loaded my DSL software on it, and was on the net almost instantly. One of the things that struck me as odd was that there were virtually no preloaded applications or tools. No tools to zip/unzip files, and even the Lotus SmartSuite that is advertised with the computer was not preloaded, nor were the CDs available. I called IBM and they told me I had to request the CD by phone, and they would ship it for free... but it has to be requested by calling a number that is on one of the sheets of paper that comes with the laptop. I did actually receive the Lotus SmartSuite CD and have installed it and it works great. For the price of this machine, a Dell or a Sony would have had lots more software on it, but I think it's OK to pay a premium for a machine of this quality. It did come with Microsoft Outlook Express. I liked the way the system had been formatted into one big "C:\" drive. I installed and uninstalled a lot of freeware, because of which I started encountering some weird errors on bootup. So I decided to reinitialize (restore) the machine to out-of-the-box state. They have a bootable CD-ROM for that which worked out great! I was very impressed and pleasantly surprised with how painless the process was. I was expecting to go through hell. The trackpoint mouse is extremely crisp and accurate, and while I feel that touchpad mouses create less stress in the fingers (the NEC had that), I like the precise control that the trackpoint gives. There's no accidental click and select that used to happen to me with the touchpad. I also like the nifty "ThinkLight" that illuminates the keyboard when turned on for easier typing in darkness. The keyboard is beautiful... it makes me feel like a better typist than I really am !! The "Thinkpad" button just above the keyboard brings up useful tips and help menus, another really cool feature. One thing that I haven't been able to figure out yet is why I can't connect to my Pacbell DSL if I put the machine into hibernate mode and then wake it up. I need to research the issue a little more, although most of the time, I just shut the machine down, or leave it running with the power cord (the screen and harddisk will go to sleep after a certain period of inactivity). [12/23/00 After researching the issue, I found that it was a problem with the DSL software that Pacbell had provided. Upgrading the software fixes the problem]. Just be prepared to spend your own money for application software because as I mentioned earlier, it comes with virtually none. The only think that I've bought so far is Norton Antivirus, but I haven't had the time to install it. I've loaded some freeware such as Adobe Acrobat Reader, emacs, an SSH client, etc. I remember calling IBM tech support just once... I can't remember what the issue was, but I was on hold for more than half an hour. So, if you're planning to use tech support, take a few lessons in patience before you pick up that phone! Plus they weren't all that helpful, and I ended up getting the issue resolved on my own. However, from what I've read about customer support for most other brands (Sony, Dell, etc.), the customer support with them isn't anything to write home about either. All in all, I've really enjoyed the T20 thus far and would wholeheartedly recommend this machine to anybody looking for a performance portable without compromise. Recommended: Yes
Even the Greatest Things Have Their Flaws Sep 12 '01 Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 4.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Powerhouse, crisp & clear screen, sturdy feel, excellent DVD playback Cons Not the lightest, difficulty changing OS, graphics lacking The Bottom Line A great notebook for professional work, but loaded with enough power and features for occassion leisure entertainment as well. Full Review Hi There! Let Me Introduce You To… The laptop that is hailed as a top choice in the world of notebooks. This machine is for the professional user and has some very wonderful points in its favor, but it falls short of being the perfect laptop. The IBM ThinkPad T20 can come in a variety of configurations. Just to clarify, this particular machine I am reviewing is equipped with 256MB RAM (upgraded) and runs at 850mhz. It runs Windows 2000 pre-installed. We bought this machine from a friend in new condition. It came with a power adapter, Intel 10/100 PCMCIA Network Card, Restore CD’s and a single battery. No docking station was included. The Good… This machine is powerful. The T20 doesn’t miss a beat. DVD movies play very well on this notebook, even with a multitude of system tray programs running background. I have also tested game performance. Quake III runs very well on this system, but not at full detail mode. The graphics card is a bit lacking (ATI Rage Mobile 16MB), but as I stated before this notebook was intended for the business professional. But of course even the business professional needs to relax, so rest assured you can play Quake III, but it won’t look as great as it would on a game-oriented machine. The colors are vibrant and the test is crisp on this beautiful screen. The notebook itself feels very sturdy. The ThinkPad T20 is slimmer than the majority of notebooks, but isn’t exactly the lightest notebook I’ve even held. The Bad… I enjoy using Win98SE. It is the most stable version of consumer Windows in my opinion. Being that Windows 2000 is a bit too professional for my needs; I wanted to replace it with my Win98SE OS. This was a problem for Mr. T20. The main problem is detecting the hardware on the machine. The Restore CD has the drivers for all the hardware, but it also has the drivers for all the hardware for many different lines of IBM notebooks. This way IBM can distribute the same CD with many of their notebooks with less hassle for them, more hassle for us. Since there are 40+ directories, and the device manager shows undetectable hardware as unknown, how do you know to look for modem drivers or sound card drivers? After several hours of tinkering, I was forced to restore the system back to Win2000. So if you plan on installing another OS when you get this machine, it might be a hassle. The speakers aren’t much to speak of, which is common with notebooks. If you enjoy those DVD movies, than I suggest an external pair of speakers to go along for the ride. The notebook doesn’t come with an abundance of software, and for what the retail price goes, I would appreciate few more perks. The Details… If you’ve owned a notebook before than you know there are two basic types of devices that notebooks usually include as the primary mouse. You have the touch pad type and the "Eraser-head" type. This one is the eraser-head and I personally do not enjoy it. The T20 features PS/2 ports for external mouse/keyboard, an s-video out port, VGA out, 2 PCMCIA slots, internal 56k and USB. With this notebook you have both floppy and DVD drives. Keyboard configuration is a standard compact layout with some proprietary IBM ThinkPad functions. You do have buttons to control volume and mute. Battery life is fairly good. Approximately 3 hours on a fully charged battery. That is plenty of time to finish the average movie and check your e-mail. I would recommend the IBM T20 to any professional as an excellent mobile computer, with qualities that make it ideal for a work-related role, but also carries enough features to be a part time entertainment center. Recommended Yes
The Online Insider Looks at the IBM T20Apr 03 '01 (Updated Apr 05 '01)Author's Product RatingEase of Use: Quality of Tech Support: ProsFast, slim, and lightConsCost may be prohibitiveThe Bottom LineAll in all, a great machine for business. Light and easily transportable, with solid construction.Full ReviewWhen I began to work more from outside the office, I looked at a few options for a home machine.I knew that I needed the freedom of a laptop, but I wasn't sure which one. I had already been through the trials of the Sony Viao (great looking machine, but it has an annoying habit of losing everything at the worst time).The laptop needed to be small and light. Sometimes I need to take the train into the city -- and bulky laptops are an impediment. It also needed to NT compatible, which knocked many laptops out of contention.I talked to many of my friends and read many epinions about laptops and came to a solution -- I would try the IBM T20, which was the latest model. I was not disappointed.Here are the specs of the machine:Dimensions:The machine is small and light. It is just 13.1 in (W) x 10.6 in (H) x 1.8 (D) in and weighs 7.5 lbs.Display:The display is large -- 15 inch screen! It does have an active matrix display, though.Keyboard and Mouse:The IBM's keyboard is normal size, so you won't have the annoyance of your fingers not being able to find the right keys. Numbers and frequently used characters are hidden though...and you need to hit your function key to type these.One thing that you may have to get used to is the fact that all IBMs use the patented 'nipple' touch mouse, which can be an experience getting used to. I still prefer this over a glide pad or mouse-ball option.Clock Speed and RAM:The machine is powered by a 700 mHz Pentium III processor. It really moves and can double or triple task with no problem. As I configured it, the t20 has 128 megs of RAM, and this could be increased to 256, more than enough for standard applications like word and excel. And enough for apps like photoshop, too.Storage:An amazing 20 gigs!Color (Just like Henry Ford said):Any Color, Just So Long As It's Black.The Rest Of the Package:It comes standard with a 56 K modem and some ordinary graphics and sound cards. If you want a machine to play games on -- this is not it! The machine also ships with a swappable CDROM and 3" disc drive.HINT: It's important to have that 3" around, as you'll never know when you'll need it..sometimes the easiest way to transfer a file is still the old way.All told, the machine retailed for 3,400. I got it from CDW.Also, the machine came with no software installed. Since installing NT (and upgrading to Win 2000) are not easy, novices may need to purchase the machine with the OS and Windows tools installed, which will increase the price.As an aside, when you purchase computers or peripherals, you need to understand that your model is immediately worth less once you take possession of it. It's like driving a new car off the lot -- you lose 30% of the value straightaway. So my ultimate advice for anyone buying a notebook, desktop, printer or a scanner? Make sure you like what you've got, because the next best thing is already out there...that's just the nature of the market.RecommendedYes
Dream Laptop for the Rich Jan 05 '01 (Updated Jan 05 '01) Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Power, DVD, light weight, great screen Cons Price, Ugly looks Full Review The IBM Think Pads are the standard machines for executives. They are usually powerful and costs tons. They are also black. They are small for the power which they harness. They should be great for everyone, if they only cost less… I was thrilled when my boss approved me for one of these beasts. From its specs this is a dream laptop. 700Mhz PIII, 12 Gigs HD and 256 MB of RAM, DVD!!, modem, Ethernet port, the options go on. When the thing finally arrived I could not wait to open it up and test it out. The T20 did not let me down. It is wonderful. Although I work in the computer industry, I am not a hardware techie. What I expect from this machine is its power to process data, a good size, light weight, long lasting battery power(3 hours!), and good service. T20's went beyond my expectations. Although today there are faster laptops in terms of processing power 700 Mhz is more than enough for me to crunch work on Excel, running Java intensive applications, or both while listening to my MP3's. The standard DVD drive is a blast. I can finally watch my favorite Maximus Decimus Meridus kicking butt while taking the train. Of course, watching movies or engaging in other Multimedia activities would not be enjoyable if the screen is too small. The T20 comes with a nice, 14 inch screen with great resolution. The only bad thing I would say about T20's display is its graphics card. It's equipped with a Savage 9 video card w/ 8 megs of RAM. That is good for all of the stuff I need to do for work but then I don't think I could play too many graphic intensive FPS (first person shooters, think Quake3) with this machine. Well, that doesn't matter because I shouldn't be playing games with a company machine anyways, even at home. Since I am not paying this (thank god) I ordered whole bunch of other options as well. Other than an additional 128 MB RAM I also ordered a docking station, extra keyboard, mouse, battery, carrying bag, electricity adapter and a few other things, all of which cost a bundle. The docking station alone costs close to $500 (enough to buy a PIII700 desktop). The total came out to be $4700. In today's world this is an astonishing price for a laptop because that is enough to buy at least 5 desktops with the same specs and 17in monitors. Even when compared to other laptops the T20 is also wayyyyy up there, beaten only by newer and more powerful Thinkpads. It is a relief therefor to know that you will get what you paid extra for. Before ordering the T20 I was also thinking about the Sony VIAO 700 Mhz laptop as well. One of my Co-workers has one and these things are cool. They are silver, small, and just as powerful if not more so than the T20. They cost about the same as the T20 and they even come with remote clickers which enables you to remotely go on the next page during Powerpoint presentations. They are lighter than the T20s too. T20 does have a better keyboard layout than the VIAO (easier to type on the T20) but the VIAO beats T20 on just about everything else. I did not buy the VIAO because company usually buys Thinkpads so support is better for the T20. If you are a serious Laptop buyer I would suggest you to take a good look at the VIAO as well. Overall I would recommend the T20 for just about everyone. It is not as good looking as the VIAO but it sure feels a lot sturdier and IBM's support is better than Sony's. The only reason why I don't buy one of these for myself is the price, which is probably the main reason why almost NO ONE has a T20. This machine is also unlikely to attract too much attention from others (I live in Boston, and lots of people carry around laptops), but it's what's inside which matters. Recommended: Yes
Another Thinkpad Wonder Oct 04 '00 (Updated Oct 05 '00) Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Pros Awesome display, smart ports Cons Pricey Full Review I recently gave the Thinkpad 600X a rave review so how could a notebook really improve upon it? That was my attitude as I first opened the T20. I doubted that it could really be all that much better; instead, I figured it would be only marginally better and that, given the price premium, could wait a bit before being worth buying. In some respects, I'd say I was right. But at the same time, I was impressed by certain features that really made me glad to be a Thinkpad user. The main features that grabbed my attention (outside of the usual faster CPU) were: bigger display, gorgeous colors on the display, slightly lighter, built-in phone and network jacks (although the network jack needs a mini-PCI card to activate it), and better arrangement of ports. There are also some other neat frilly things like a keyboard light, dedicated volume switches, and a port on the display (that IBM says is for a video camera). To take a step back, the IBM Thinkpad T20 is a new line of IBM notebook computers. I personally think its a 600 series replacement but IBM still offers the 600 series so they are currently living in parallel. It's slightly larger than the 600X but actually weighs a little less due to the titanium-based case (which also sounds cooler). As I initially mentioned, the display is really one of the most outstanding features. It's now 14.1", very bright, and very white. I compared it side by side with my 600X and found that the T20's new display made me realize I've been looking at off-white all this time instead of real white. Even my desktop monitor didn't have such a perceptible difference. There are bigger displays but none as outstanding. I'd gladly sacrifice a little size to get the quality of the T20's LCD display. A bonus with the improved display is 8MB video RAM! Finally, you can play video intensive games from two years ago. I don't know why notebooks have lagged desktop so much in video RAM, but this is a welcome improvement from the 600 series 2.5 MB or 4 MB video RAM. Also making the T20 a truly worthwhile upgrade are all around the decreased weight and improved ports. The case is now made of some titanium composite. Is that real or just some marketing gimmick? It seems that everything is being made of titanium nowadways. But the fact is that the T20 is indeed lighter. I haven't tried sitting on either my 600X or the T20 so I won't vouch for crush-resistance. The ports have been tweaked and modified. It seems like a small change, but one that people who live with their notebooks will appreciate. Now, all the ports are on the back of the machine. This means no more octopus effect when moving your notebook. With my 600, when I move my notebook, I have my usb devices to the left, power to the rear, and network dongle to the right. With the T20, everything is to the rear. Very intelligent and very elegant. The T20 also features an inactive network port that can be activated with a mini-PCI card. I don't know what else is available as a mini-PCI card but it sounds cool. There's also a little port on the top of the screen that is supposed to be for a video camera. I don't have one so I can't comment on it's usefulness or lack thereof. The only things that were a slight let down were a slightly mushier keyboard. I have no idea why they would change their keyboards. IBM Thinkpads have always been widely applauded for having the best keyboard on a notebook in the industry hands-down. I'm also not too fond of the new shape with the slanted sides...that's just a personal preference so I wouldn't give it too much weight. I like the plain, boxy, utilitarian 600 series. I also don't know if there's a port for a second battery. If not, I'll be sorely disappointed. This is one of my favorite features of the 600 series -- the ability to have two batteries taking care of you on a coast-to-coast flight. Still, all things considered, the T20 is a worthy successor to the 600 series and worth the upgrade if you are on the verge of upgrades. If you are doing fine with your 600, you might want to hold off to see what other magic comes out of the Thinkpad series. Your major tempation? The new display. Don't look at it if you don't want to be tempted! Recommended Yes
Suppose You Won A Lottery for $3000: The Way You Waist It Mar 12 '01 (Updated Mar 18 '01) Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 2.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Light weight, nice display, powerful profile Cons Price, internal design problem, mismatch with some software with default settings. The Bottom Line Can you risk your precious $3000 with a decent notebook which has some problems? Full Review As the title goes, let me assume you won a lottery. Also, let's assume you want to buy a very high-end light weight notebook especially by IBM. Then, you probably want to check out IBM Thinkpad T20. Otherwise.... I recently had a chance to try this notebook of one of my friends'. She was having a lot of problems with her IBM Thinkpad T20, and asked me to re-install everything for a couple of big dinners. The following opinion is based on the 3-day trial use during my maintenance of her computer. First of all, to be fair, I have to state that probably her IBM Thinkpad T20 is from a bad lot. Looking at other reviews, I might have to admit this product is not that bad as I describe below. Now, let me go to the details. I would like to divide my points into hardware part and software integration. PROBLEMS WITH HARDWARE The first thing I noticed with IBM Thinkpad T20 is that the hard drive part gets extremely hot even in a shot-time use. It is not a serious problem, but I didn't feel safe. Every one hour or so, I got an urge that I should shut down this computer, and let it rest for a while. Maybe this is due to the following reasons. Even though I am not doing anything and am setting the screen saver to run after 30 min., the hard drive is constantly accessed, and the disc is running all the time. I am not very familiar with when and how the hard drive is accessed. But their should be something strange, because there should not be many reasons for the machine to read out the information from the hard drive. Another thing, which is very serious, is due to its design. Long before I took care of this machine, my friend encountered a monitor problem, and send the machine back to the technical support. What turned out to be true was that the connector between monitor and the body was malfunctioning. The technical blamed my friend's rough treatment in opening and closing the lid. But if the connector gets damaged within two-month use by a female who paid whopping $3000, what seems to me very likely is that the problem is in the design itself. PROBLEMS WITH SOFTWARE INTERFACE Compared to other computers, this machine takes much longer time to boot and to shut down. This happened even after I re-installed the operating system, namely Windows Me. You can solve this problem by keeping the machine in the stand-by mode. But in that case, as I stated above, you have to deal with the consistent high temperature. Talking about the stand-by mode, this machine doesn't alert before it goes dark. This is not a big problem, but I would like this machine to be more user-friendly. It seems to me this machine with the default setting has some mismatch with some major software. This often demands you to re-boot the machine. You can solve this mismatch by customization. However, considering the fact that not many people are willing to change the system settings with their own knowledge, I guess many new users will have a lot of problems. OTHER COMMENTS Now, let's face the major problem. IBM Thinkpad T20 costs you a lot of money. As I just checked the latest prices, the refurbished ones go from $1700, and the brand new ones go from $2500. The prevailing price for new one is somewhere around $3000. (Note that you have to be very careful in choosing the store. Some stores are offering with a very low price tag, but they don't ship the product to you.) If you are one of the richest people, you will be able to risk your $3000 easily for a decent notebook. But these days when the computers are very cheap compared to several years ago, there is less reasons to buy a high-end notebook at this price. Moreover, if you have the extra $3000, you can buy one nice high-end desktop and one decent notebook. As a serious computer user, I don't understand why I should buy a very expensive notebook a monitor less friendly to your eyes. FINAL REMARKS If your IBM Thinkpad T20 comes from a good lot, it will make you happy. However this product seems to involve a lot of problems by default. So, I would rather not recommend you to risk your precious $3000 with IBM Thinkpad T20. Of course, if you have earned $3000 as the fast buck, and if you are loyal to IBM, you can try IBM Thinkpad T20.
T20, what a machine Sep 19 '00 (Updated Jun 05 '01) Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Very fast, incredible screen display, nice appearance Cons Not so light and a little expensive The Bottom Line If you are looking for the ultimate in laptop performance and power. Look no further than the IBM T20. Full Review Well, what can I say about the T20 other than what a machine. I have used the 600 family, the 380 family, and the 570. I work with these systems all day. But one thing caught my attention most about the T20. For starters, the sleep mode has finally been fixed compared to its brothers. Now you can put your laptop into suspend mode with peace of mind that when you wake it, it won't have to be rebooted. Features such as the ThinkLight keyboard light allows you to work even in the dark, now this is amazing. Another interesting feature is the wireless communications options that give you greater freedom to work wherever you want to work via the infrared ports. Though, overall support is not quite the best I must say. I have had multiple issues with support and drivers from IBM, though finding the drivers on their site is fairly easy. The Assistant offers an online user's guide with a quick search engine, plus animated how-to demos including installing memory and more which makes it easier for the less computer savvy. Now they have Individual volume control buttons: up, down and mute, for quick and easy access. Thinkpad Button gives you one-button access to IBM and launches Access ThinkPad, the site where new updated drivers specifically for your laptop model can be downloaded. You can also download additional software to customize your laptop for the most ease of use. There are lots more interesting features, like the battery life. It can be in standby mode for hours longer than its brothers. Wireless features are amongst the best. After all, let�s face it, you buy a laptop for it's remote possibilities. Communications is easy with the integrated RJ-11 and RJ-45 ports for connectivity via modem or LAN for those of you who use it in the office. Also, the built in 56K modem for fast accurate connections. This is nice for when you need to have the bay slots available for additional PCMCIA cards you may need. I can continue promoting this laptop, but the truth is that it speaks for itself. After working so long with the IBM family, I have come to realize the T20 is one hell of a machine for the professional and the non-professional. I highly recommend it to anyone expecting allot from a laptop. Trust me, you won't to wrong. Recommended: Yes
Think. The future is now. Nov 08 '00 Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Pros All-around great computer Cons This much quality costs a lot Full Review I wrote a review way back about the IBM A20. It blew me away. Last week my company placed my name on the first list for a T20. After several days of playing with my newest toy, I've come to the realization that IBM has built an almost perfect machine. Here's why: PIII 700 MHz - That's a lot of power to pack into a laptop. Any laptop. But the T20 stretches the bounds of reality by placing that power in a machine that weighs less than 5 pounds and is so quiet, I sometimes wonder if it's on. At this speed, the T20 is now my number one choice for desktop replacement. Add a power-saving technology to that power and you have a machine that adjusts to the many different laptop environments. "Speed-step" technology automatically adjusts processer speed when you are undocked to save your batteries. Bigger, better display - This machine does very well on my external 19" monitor with a resolution of 1280x1024 and has a laptop display with a native resolution of 1024x768 on a 14.1" TFT LCD. This is a very important factor for me since my main objective with a laptop is comlplete portability. I don't often go on the road, but I do like to take my computer with me when working at home or taking notes during a meeting. The T20 also boasts a dual-display function (LCD & CRT) but I have yet to try it since the capability of this function seems to be limited somewhat. Hot swap ultra bay - This is as easily said as done. You can hot swap your DVD or CD drives CD, extra storage, or 1.44 floppy on the fly. Sometimes it can be troublesome to have to drag your floppy dive around with you, but IBM took all of the headache out of switching drives. Tough! - Titanium composite case. I thought earlier Thinkpads were up to the job. This T20 looks like it could withstand a major pounding. The not-so-good column is very short, and boils down mostly to cost. This machine is top of the line and it is expensive. We choose to purchase these because we've had much less hardware problems and headaches with our Thinkpads. This Laptop is THE laptop I'd recommend for professionals on the go. The combination of strength, speed, and portability makes this machine a top choice.
A SIZZLING NEW CONCEPT FROM IBM Sep 27 '00 Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Titanium Composite top and bottom covers, mobile pentium III processor featuring intel speedstep technology, and a battery that lasts up to 3.7 hours. Cons the mouse is too small (but external mouse's are available) Full Review Protected by Titanium Composite covers, ThinkPad T Series notebooks are the lightest, high performance mobile computers around today....amount many features....they have a Mobile Pentium III processor with Intel SpeedStep technology, and a battery that lasts up to almost 4 hours....and on top of it all it is only "4.7 pounds". I cannot believe the performance of this computer....i recently tested an IBM thinkpad t20....that was what us rednecks like to call "fully loaded". along with the 20 gig hard drive....it came equipped with 512 ram....the speed of it exceeded my desktop...which is a pentium 3...with 318 bytes of ram....this completely blew my mind.....it was actually faster, lighter, more efficient, more compact, and more stylish...than any desktop i have ever seen. You also have to option of wireless internet connection...which for people who are on the go is a must....i believe that this computer will be on top for a while....if IBM can produce this kind of technology....who knows what they will have in the future.....many people i know complain about not having enough room on their computer....or it being too slow.....well let me tell ya...whoever purchases one of these machines...will never complain again. If anything this system has too much space....and is too fast...but i think that kind of room, and speed...will be the major factor in the production of this notebook.....i can truly say...that this is #1 on my wish list for this Christmas....and #1 on my computer list.
IBM ThinkPad X20: Laptop of the Gods Apr 05 '01 (Updated Apr 09 '01) Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Pros I love this laptop! It's size, processor, and large hard drive won me over. Cons It is pricey, but other than that I have no complaints. The Bottom Line This machine is quite expensive, but if you have the money then it's an excellent investment. Full Review Well, Epinions lack of new categories strikes again. This is a review of the IBM ThinkPad X20, but I'm placing it in the T20 category since there is no X20 category. If you notice that one has been created please drop me an e-mail and I'll move this opinion to the correct location. Thanks! I received an IBM ThinkPad X20 laptop just before Christmas. It's a loaner from work so I didn't have to pay for it. Of course, I'm expected to do work from home now, but that's another story. In this opinion I'll describe the pros and cons of the laptop from my end-user perspective. There won't be a lot of technical specs here, and keep in mind that some of the accessories I mention need to be bought separately. BASIC CONFIGURATION My X20 has a Pentium III 600 Mhz processor, 20 GB of hard drive space, and a 12.1" screen. Windows 2000 Professional is installed as the operating system. In addition to the basic laptop, I've added a docking station to provide a parallel port (for printers, scanners and CD burners), a floppy drive, and a place to plug in a proper mouse and keyboard. My employer also installed an ethernet card, and a PCMCIA Cisco System wireless LAN card. I use the ethernet to connect to my Internet service when I'm at home, and the wireless to surf the web when I'm in boring meetings at work. SIZE Without exception, the very first thing that everyone notices about this laptop is it's incredibly small size. The surface of the laptop is about the size of a typical 8 1/2 x 11" sheet of paper, and only 1" thick. This machine is so small, in fact, that many people don't even realize when I have it in the docking station and assume that the docking station is part of the laptop. Once, I grabbed the whole thing, docking station and all, and walked off to meeting without even realizing until later. I don't know how much the X20 weighs, but it is very light and can easily be tucked under your arm. SPEED This machine flies, compared to my Pentium II workstation and the old Pentium 166 clunker I had at home. I can open multiple applications and flip between them without delay. My Internet connection is much faster and more stable than it was on my old computer. The only complaint I have about this machine (speed-wise) is the amount time it takes to start up. I'd estimate the average start up time at about 2 to 3 full minutes. After I logon it requires another full minute or so until I can start launching applications. This is a minor annoyance, however, and I understand that this is a common problem with many laptops versus desktops. CURSOR CONTROL The X20 has a small red "push-stick" in the center of the keyboard that is used much like a joystick to move the cursor around the screen. The stick takes some getting used to at first, but after a few days of steady use I was able to confidently navigate around. I still do occasionally click on the wrong things when I'm in a hurry, but the control is adequate for most uses. Most importantly it doesn't take up a lot of space, and I prefer it to the finger pad style controls on other laptops I've used. THE KEYBOARD The keyboard is small, compact, and well laid out. Luckily, I have small fingers so I don't find it that different from typing on a full size desktop keyboard. However, I don't think I'll ever be able to type as fast on my X20 as elsewhere, and because the keys are small and sensitive I do occasionally hit a wrong button while stretching for the numbers or function keys. Along the top of the keyboard are four "special" buttons. The first is a "Thinkpad" button that is supposed to pop up a menu of Thinkpad-specific options. I never use this button, and it doesn't seem to do anything when I press it. I suspect this might due to the configuration of my operating system (and the fact that I only skimmed my X20 user's manual!) The three other buttons along the top of the keyboard are used to decrease, increase or mute the sound volume. SOUND The sound that comes out of the built-in Thinkpad speakers is acceptable for bleeps and bloops, but you won't be using them to host any dance parties with your MP3 collection. Thankfully, the Thinkpad has a line-out jack for audio, and when I connect the audio through to my portable Sanyo stereo the sound is quite good. To my untrained ear the MP3s I play on my laptop through my stereo sound just as good as CDs I play on the stereo itself. Excellent. DISPLAY QUALITY The display quality on my X20 is crisp and clean. As long as I take a moment to place the screen at a correct angle to my line of sight the colours and details are excellent. In general, I find laptop displays to be easier on my eyes than conventional monitors--the images seem more stable and less flickery. However, the screen is only about 12 inches in size, so I find myself scrolling frequently when reading large documents or web pages. BATTERY LIFE Battery life is an important topic, especially when you are using your laptop for meetings, or on an airplane. When the battery is fully charged my X20 will last through about 3 full hours of moderate use before it dies. If desired, you can configure the machine to conserve energy by dimming the screen when running from batteries. You can also configure the machine to go into "standby" mode after a certain period of time with no activity has passed. In standby mode the machine appears to be off, but recovers quickly to it's original state when you tap the power button. My only complaint with this feature is that I usually lose my network connection (wireless or ethernet) when the machine goes into standby mode, and I may be required to reboot. I've occasionally received the dreaded "blue screen of death" when I try to reconnect to the Internet after coming out of standby mode. Not too friendly. One further note on battery life: as the machine ages, the battery life will reduce. Some of my co-workers have trouble surviving 30 minutes on a fully charge battery. I assume that this is a simple fact of laptop life, and they simply need to invest in a new battery. SECURITY ISSUES Laptops are a hot commodity on the black market, especially little ThinkPads like this one. To deter thieves the X20 has a security slot on the body of the laptop and the docking station that allows you to lock it to a desk or bolt with a security cable. The cable unlocks with a key or combination, depending on the type. In order to remove the cable without a key a thief would have to practically destroy the body of the laptop--not too inviting to a pawn shop. Fortunately, if the machine is stolen or lost, the contents of the hard drive can be protected with either a power-on password, a hard drive password, or both. This is a good idea if the machine contains confidential work-related information. CONCLUSION I love this laptop! It's tiny size, powerful processor, and large hard drive won me over right away. The only complaints I have about it are minor, and they are probably more a criticism of laptops in general than the X20. This machine is quite expensive, but if you have the money then it's an excellent investment. Note: Prices are very approximate, since I didn't pay for mine and I'm not sure about the Canadian to US dollar price conversion.
Worth the wait Nov 24 '02 (Updated Dec 03 '02) Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Keyboard, screen, build-quality, warranty, that "ThinkPad Look" Cons Absolutely none The Bottom Line Get a used T20 and say goodbye to "Laptop Envy" forever! Full Review I used to do computer consulting and support as a sideline business, and two years ago had a job which involved installing Windows 2000 and a brand-new IBM T20 and configuring it for the company's network. I had just bought a brand-new Toshiba Satellite 2675 days before, and immediately felt laptop envy the moment I touched the casing of that T20. Installing the software was a piece of cake, and I filed the wonderful experience in the back of mind, wishing that someday, I too could afford a T20. I've been through two other laptops in those two years, both of them Toshiba Porteges. Don't get me wrong, I really love ultralight laptops, and in that category, I consider Toshiba Porteges to be, along with IBM's X-series, the very best. I would have kept using my Portege 3480 for a few more years, but I was asked to configure a classmate's T23, which is essentially identical to the T20, only faster, and my laptop envy returned, in full-force. This time, however, I COULD afford a T23 of my very own. T23? Isn't this a review of the T20? Well, I was about to order a new T23 from CDW, when I did a quick search on eBay and found a "Like New" T20 at less than half the price of the T23. After getting the serial number from the seller and finding that it was still under IBM factory warranty, the deal was set and I bought a T20 with 14" screen, 700MHz screen, Windows 98, 128MB ram and a 20GB drive. First off, my purchase was an example about but what to, and not to do when buying used. I did my homework and verified that the machine was under warranty, however I didn't ask enough questions about condition, and simply took the seller's "Like New' description to mean what it said. The machine arrived with a sticky keyboad, very flexible chasis and washed-out, yellow-tinted screen. The seller was very uncooperative, having just offloaded his problem laptop, so I called IBM tech support (and filed fraud charges on eBay). IBM came through, and this 26-month-old computer was sent to them with a laundry list of problems, returning three days later as an essentially new computer. They replaced the LCD, the keyboard, the hard drive (was noisy) and tightened up all of the screws on the inside and out. They also replaced some interior chasis parts that had warped or bent over two years of hard use, and even changed the top cover, so that all that is left of the original machine is the bottom plate (very clean) and the motherboard, which tested perfect. My T20 is now, in every sense of the term, "Like New", and is simply a delight to use. First off, when my T20 returned from IBM, there were a few changes I had to make immediately. I dislike WIndows 98. Actually, dislike is far too mild a word, I HATE IT. DOS-based Windows is simply too buggy and unstable for me to risk my data on, so any computer that comes with Windows 95, 98 or ME, immediately gets the "New OS" treatment. A new OS for me is either Windows 2000 Professional or either version of Windows XP. IBM's website is terrific here, as they have a chart for each of their series of laptops, cross-indexed by all supported operating systems. Find T20 on the top, then go down to each category, such as video or sound, and pick the driver for the OS you want to use. I decided to install Windows XP Professional on my T20, and everything was very easy to find and install. MY ADVICE HERE: Do not do an "Upgrade" install, but rather bite the bullet, wipe the hard drive and install the new OS "Clean", from scratch. Upgrades never work well, and always introduce stability problems down the road. Since I was installing a new OS anyway, and wanted lots of space to play with images from my new digital camera (Canon S200 Digital Elph, review coming soon), I ordered a larger hard drive on eBay while the laptop was being fixed by IBM. When the laptop came back, I installed a 40GB IBM Travelstar hard drive, which is the same drive that comes with the new T23, and added $100 to the price. I also wanted more than 128MB of ram, so I ordered a pair of 256MB modules, maxing it out to 512MB (60. Lastly, while my computer came only with DVD, I still wanted bootable floppy and CDRW, so I ordered both drives to fit in the ultrabay 2000 port ($40 floppy, $60 CDRW). My grand total was $260 for accessories/upgrades and $650 for the laptop = $910. I sold the 20GB drive for $50 and the 128MB module for $10, making my net cost for a 700MHz T20 with 512MB RAM, 40GB drive, DVD, CDRW and floppy drives $850. That new T23 was selling for $1685, with only DVD, 20GB and 128MB RAM. With Windows XP the T20 is a delight. It boots up quickly and does everything smooth and fast. Of course, XP is very stable on the T20, as this is a "Corporate-class" laptop, meaning only stable, tried-and-true components were used, with correspondingly mature nad stable drivers. There is no flakey video or any other erratic behavior on a T-seies ThinkPad, because the vast majority of such troubles on other laptops comes from poorly written divice drivers. Everything here simply works. The best example I can think of is hot-swapping drives. Pull the small eject lever and IBM's EasyEject utility AUTOMATICALLY tells the OS that you will remove the drive, and by the time you grab the handle that pops out automatically for that purpose, the system tray tells you that the device is ready to be removed. INsert the new device and by the time you can click "My Computer" to open it up, the system tray tells you it is ready. Every laptop should work like this, but they don't. As for the physical stuff, well IBM keyboards are legendary, and this one fully deserves the reputation. It is crisp and firm, while quiet. They keys are more responsive than anything else you will ever touch, except, of course, another IBM. My wife owns a ThinkPad 570, and this is just as good, better than any of the Toshibas I've owned, with the possible exception of the Portege 4000, which is very "IBM-Like". The screen is simply gorgeous. I've always used smaller laptops with 11 or 12 inch panels, so moving up to a 14" TFT is a dramatic difference for me. My Portege 4000 with its 12" screen was a beautiful machine for multimedia, but with the 14" T20 next to it, there is no comparison. Most impressive of all, despite the much larger LCD and a bigger keyboard, the T20 is thinner than the Portege, shallower, though a little bit wider. It also only weighs a half-pound more, making it every bit as portable. The TrackPoint mouse is typical IBM, and considerably better than Toshiba's similar accupoint. Cursor control is fast and accurate, and at least for this user, represents about the best pointing device available on a laptop. There is no need to move your fingers away from typing position, and unlike touchpads, no chance whatsoever of accidentally clicking with the fleshy part of your thumb. Finally, compared to more modern laptops, like the T23 or even the new T30, very little is given up in buying a used T20. 700MHz is so fast that you probably won't even notice the difference unless you edit video or play high-end video games. Of course the newer laptops have better video chips and higher resolution screens, so if you do work in graphics, an older machine will likely not meet your needs. For me, it is perfect. I do typical office type work, word processing, email, web browsing and video conferencing, all of which are accomplished extremely well using the T20. Even DVD movie playback is every bit as good as the newer laptops, with no distortion or jitters, just a smooth, high-quality picture and awesome sound, even from the built-in speakers, which are mounted in the center of the front panel - an unusual location. In conclusion, I believe we have reached one of those technological plateaus where the hardware has advanced much faster than the needs of the software. The result is that even two or three year old laptops are still entirely satisfactory in terms of performance. My desktop is an AMD K6-2 at 450MHz, and it runs Windows XP Home very well indeed, with no need for any more power. I am totally satisfied with my T20, and suffer laptop envy no more. ***Update 12/03/02*** Well, I've been happily computing on my T20 for over a month now and can honestly say that this is by far, the nicest PC I've ever used. Dead reliable and very fast, it simply continues to delight. The digital camera conects seamlessly, appearing as another drive in My Computer. The CDRW burns successfully every time, and even my "difficult" DVD, a Korean film called "2009 Lost Memories" plays beautifully. I did have a problem wiht the modem/ethernet combo card, and IBM just overnighted a new one to me - now that's service. With my 3Com X-Jack 802.11 wireless PC card installed, it even has seamless wifi integration. Not bad for a 1999 model laptop bought on the cheap. Recommended Yes
So good I bought one!! by sysconp1 | Jun 07 '01 Pros: Lightweight, stylish, simple to use features Cons: Price The Bottom Line: I am having all our laptops changed over to the T-series, so easy to use and support. Plus IBM support is second to none. Recommended: Yes Well what can I say? I have had this machine since September last year and I am delighted. This machine is everything IBM says and much more. I have mine loaded up to 512MB RAM and a 30GB HDD with a now multi-region DVD to boot. This machine has been a work horse, travelling with me across the world and functioning perfectly. Lightweight even with the extras you are never to knackered from lugging it around. IBM did well putting the composite Titanium case on this toy, it really is hard wearing! The audio keys and access key just above the keyboard are perfect for day to day operation. IBM have moved the power button to just above the keyboard also and this prevents the laptop from being switched on in transit. Battery life has been excellent with 3hrs being the minimum during normal operation. The addition of a mini PCI slot on the top of the lid adds a lot of new features such as the camera, bluetooth unit and smart card socket. The camera is excellent with great definition and pose value. Amount Paid (US$): 3200 Operating System: Windows Processor: Intel Pentium III Processor speed: 601-700 RAM: More than 256 Internal Storage: DVD
I bought a 150 T20s Light, Great Screen, Fast Haven't found one yet I am the President of a recent eBusiness Start-up for a major insurance company in Chicago, IL. We needed a powerful, portable solution for 150 new employees for this start-up. We chose the IBM Thinkpad T20 with 128 MB of RAM, an 18 Gig Hard Drive and...
LAPTOP THAT WON'T LET YOU DOWN Feb 20 '01 Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros fast,easy to use Cons none The Bottom Line very reliableeasy to use and fast Full Review My company ordered 600 new T20s, and we've received about 50 of them so far. Apparently IBM can't make them fast enough because they're delayed in shipping. But anyways, back to the product. The new T20 is one of the finest laptops I've seen to date. This thing is more powerfull than some of the servers we have here at work. With over a gig of ram in our versions, there isn't anything that you can't run. The Pentium III chip is one of the fastest chips on the market so you aren't going to be outdated very fast. Like all thinkpads, it's built to last. There isn't anything you can do to break these things. They're as sturdy, if not more sturdy than all the other thinkpads that I've used. I personally use my T20 more than I do my desktop I love it so much. If you're on the market to buy a new laptop, this is the one to get. Recommended Yes Amount Paid (US$): 3500 Operating System: Windows Processor: Intel Pentium II Processor speed: Don't Know Screen Size: Greater than 15 RAM: 96 Internal Storage: CD-RW Hard Drive (GB): 41-50
The Perfect Laptop? by: marc (Mon May 29 '00) Pros: Screen size, form factor, product support Cons: Expensive, no trackpad available If you are sick of carrying around a 7 pound "desktop replacement" laptop but you still want the cutting edge performance, the IBM ThinkPad T20 is a fabulous option. Weighing in at 4.6 pounds with a 14.1" screen, a large hard drive and lots of whistles and bells (like a little light which shines down on the keyboard for when you need to type in low-light situations), this laptop can go anywhere and do anything. It comes with many different configurations which are easily located on the IBM.com website and the product support offered by IBM is top notch. For one, you can easily retrieve a dynamic list of all downloadable update files for your specific machine. Besides the high price, there are a few small downsides... Some people find the IBM pointer device (used instead of a trackpad) to be awkward and fidgety at first. After repeated use, I have come around on this. I use a mouse anytime I am using an application that I will be using for more than 20 minutes or so but when doing busywork around the hard drive (moving or renaming files, reading emails) the little touchpoint thing is fine. In fact, it's often faster than a trackpad because your hands are right there as you type. Purchase Price: $3,644 Operating System: Windows Ease of Use: Piece of cake to use Processor: Intel Pentium III Processor speed: 601-700 Screen Size: 14" RAM (MB): 128 Internal Storage: DVD Hard Drive (GB): 9-12 Quality of Tech Support: Went out of their way to be helpful Recommend to other potential buyers? Yes Recommended as a gift for: Busy Executives
If not THE BEST Laptop on the market! Feb 18 '01 Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros This has got to be one of the best machines on the market. Cons You have to get use to the mouse on this laptop. The Bottom Line It is the kind of equipment that you will feel good about purchasing. The performance is incredible. Battery life is OK. It's thin. Weighs next to nothing. GREAT BUY! Full Review OK.OK. Enough marketing from me or anyone. But i do have to tell you that after friends of mine saw the laptop, they were amazed. The only thing that hindered their purchase was and is the price. But you get for what you paid for with this machine. And I paid for IBM. Which to some might not mean too much but this is BIG BLUE we are talking about. The only drawback is that (like a big dumbass) i did not use Config Safe before installing an application which in turned caused havoc on my dvd player. I advise that everyone use Config Safe! One thing that could be improved is the NIC card that i purchased. It's the PCMCIA that doesn't use the dongle. The problem is that it takes up both PCMCIA spaces. ARGH! Recommended Yes Amount Paid (US$): 3349 Operating System: Windows Processor: Intel Pentium III Processor speed: 701-800 RAM: 256 Internal Storage: DVD Hard Drive (GB): 13-20
IBMMMMM by JokerJFu | Feb 16 '01 Pros: Durable, light Cons: pricey The Bottom Line: a machine worthy of my purchase Recommended: Yes I really like this laptop. It's sleak, it's very durable, and it's really lightweight, I can throw it into any backpack or suitcase and I barely even notice the weight difference. With 700 mhz behind this baby, nothing is a pain to load. If you love to surf the web, this will have web pages loading like nothing. Although it is kinda nice to have a DVD player with such a small screen it's basically pointless. And if you have the screen at the wrong angle it'll be difficult to see but that's what you have to deal with, with LCD screens. I like the quietness of the keystrokes when you're typing. If people are sleeping around you which has happened many times before to me, you can type as much as you want without the annoying sound of "CHIK! CHIK! CHIKKA CHIK!" irratating the person next to you. Overall a good computer worth having, although it will put a dent in your budget. It also comes with a 56k modem which is standard issue for today, for connecting to the internet virtually anywhere there is a phoneline. It also has great support for the RJ-11 and RJ-45 ports for connecting through modem or for people with DSL, CABLE, or any such thing as otherwise called Local Area Network (LAN) Very useful Amount Paid (US$): 2,700 Operating System: Windows Processor: Intel Pentium III Processor speed: 601-700 Screen Size: 14 RAM: 128 Internal Storage: DVD Hard Drive (GB): 13-20
Get the T21! Light weight, powerful, looks nice. Pricey. I have an IBM Thinkpad T21 PIII 850Mhz, 14.1" TFT (1400x1050), 196MB RAM, 30GB HD, DVD and Windows 2000. It is light and thin, around 5 pounds. I bought it through discovercard.com shopcenter which allowed me to save an additional 5%.
Buy one, if you can afford one! Fast, Reliable, impressive feature listing. Not cheap, a battery hog. I was issued a T20 three months ago by the company that I work for. I like this computer, but I'm glad that I didn't have to pay for $3,400 purchase price for it. This computer came loaded, however, (256MB RAM, DVD, docking station, extra power pack, etc), so the company got a lot of equipment for it's money. The computer worked perfectly out of the box, but the operating system that running needed some service packs before it was up to date. It took a week to get used to the Trackpoint, but it's actually works very well while on the road. Hot-swapping PC cards and removable drives is also very easy, and the computer has only crashed ONCE since I got it This computer is fast enough to use as a desktop replacement, and travels well. Battery life leaves something to be desired, however, as it can drain a fully charged battery in just 2 hours of moderate use. Bring an extra battery for long trips, and you'll be OK. Everything said, I'm impressed with this laptop, and I might actually buy one of my own if I ever took a job that chained me to a desktop machine.
"I bought this computer a few months back and wanted to use it a little before I submitted a review. Here it goes, the good, the bad, and the ugly on this notebook: The good This is a light machine with a 14.1"" TFT screen. Weighing in at 5.3lbs, its one of the lightest notebooks with this large of a monitor. You will not be disappointed by IBM's ""black"" TFT screen--its been the best for many years now and this notebook is no different. It beats lugging around a ""desktop replacement"". The keyboard is very responsive and has a great feel to it. Its a lot softer than the touch of a Gateway or Dell laptop, and less noisy than either. However, the keys dont feel cheap and the keyboard types surprisingly well for a reduced size keyboard. Battery life is good. I get about 3.5 hours of usage per charge and IBM has a great utility that does a fair job of predicting the battery life. I have never actually run out of batteries when I forgot my AC adapter--and I do a lot of notebook work in class or doing graphic design. The performance of this computer is very good. It may not run Premiere or After Effects as smoothly as a premium desktop, but for most uses, it works well. It will *never* have a problem with daily usage like email and word processing. Even the video performance is surprisingly good--I believed that a Savage IX video card with only 8mb SGRAM would not compare to the GeForce Go (Toshiba/Dell use this) or the ATI Radeon Mobility (Sony GR series), but even large MPEG/AVI files play smoothly. Lastly, IBM has a good technical support resource site. Once you enter in your Thinkpad model number and serial, you can log into their support site and pull up accessory lists for your computer and complete technical specifications. It's something all laptop manufacturers should do. Not to nitpick, but the Trackpoint cap gets dirty *very* easily. IBM changed their caps to be more rough so that your finger wouldn't slip some years back, but it also attracts a lot more dirt and dust. Expect to buy some trackpoint cap replacements every 6-12 months. The bad: Note, I did have 1 bad pixel on my screen, will address the issue in the bad. Perhaps it wouldn't be considered much of a fault with other laptops, but when you pay this much for a Thinkpad, I believe you deserve perfection. The cost of this machine. I paid 1800 for my Thinkpad and got a great deal--the street price was still about 2800 when I purchased. THe Thinkpad T is great and its my favorite to date, but you will pay an arm and a leg. If you have money to burn, this is a good place. But overall, this is a negative. Not only that, but IBM accessories are extremely expensive and even eBay doesnt alleviate the problem well. Moral of the story: you will pay an arm and a leg to do upgrade work. This machine is a 2 spindle design, which means you can only use the floppy or CD/DVD/CD-RW one at a time. I've gotten use to it, but when you install software, it can be a pain. Make sure you use Win 2000 or XP because you can hotswap with these OSes without too much difficulty. However, it is rather inconvenient. Lastly, the keyboard. Now it feels great and touch types wonderfully, but its still a 95% keyboard. My fingers cramp up after about 4 hours of usage per day, which is very bad. My repetitive stress injuries have substantially increased and I recommend buying an external keyboard as well. The ""ugly"" IBM's tech support policy. I had a problem on my PC (and I am a computer support technician/administrator!) and could not fix some sound problems. They refused to help me with my machine because I didn't use the Recovery software CD to configure my system. I realize this won't apply to most users, but for any ""power user"", be aware: IBM will only support machines with their default OS setup. If you want to install additional/custom OS's, you're on your own. As well, IBM technical support doesnt strike me as being as impressive as Dell's. Much better than Gateway's, but still leaves room to be desired. IBM's screeen pixel policy. On a 1024x768 XGA TFT screen (14.1""), they allow for a whopping 12 pixels going bad before they will call it a defect. One bad pixel is bearable, two gets annoying... and up to 12 is rather ridiculous. Conclusion: A great laptop, period. It's not perfect, and I wished that IBM had put a fullsize keyboard on this machine like the Thinkpad R30. (and halved the price) Other than that, this is the best laptop I have ever owned and the best balance between power, large screen, and portability thus far. (The Sony GR series comes very close though) I highly recommend this machine if you can afford it."
"Shop Around! durability, speed, reliable price At first glance, the IBM ThinkPad T20 looks a lot like the ThinkPad 600. But upon further inspection, you'll notice that IBM has carefully shifted things around, making the notebook much easier to use. The other major feature is that the case is made of a titanium alloy, which lets your Thinkpad endure the wear and tear that is involved with mobility with a lot more ease. The ThinkPad T20 is available in two flavors: The base system ($3,100 street) has a PIII/650, a 6GB hard drive, the same 13.3-inch active-matrix display as the older ThinkPad 600, and a CD-ROM drive. The high-end system ($4,000 street) has a PIII/700, a 12GB hard drive, a 14.1-inch active-matrix display, and a DVD-ROM drive"
IBM Think Pad Feb 15 '01 Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Performance, Value Cons None The Bottom Line Lightweight only 6 pounds and great product Full Review This laptop includes 4 easy launch buttons which will take you easily to your favorite Web destinations. It also has Track Point pointing device and internet scrolling bar which includes the Press To Select Feature. It has great multimedia and connectivity. It is a thin design. It includes a fast mobile Intel Celeron Processor up to 500MHZ and 12.1 HPA Display. Also has some Pre Loaded Software such as Lotus Smart Suite Millennium. A lot of times you can find great rebates on this item to save you up to 100.00. This laptop is lightweight at approx, 6 lbs. And has a built in 56K Modem. 24X CD-Rom Drive. Recommended Yes Amount Paid (US$): 689.99 Operating System: Windows Processor: Intel Celeron Processor speed: 401-500 RAM: 32 Hard Drive (GB): 13-20
Dont purchase. It'll take a bite out of your wallet. by darksun | Nov 18 '01 Pros: none Cons: battery dies out in a matter of hours. The Bottom Line: Bottom line: This is a rip off, no more need be said. Recommended: No This laptop is much too expensive for its quality first of all. I dont believe that it is worth it. The laptop drains batteries incredibly fast compared to my 200 mhz computer. Second of all, its a complete piece of junk! Several of the keys fell off during useage and needed to be glued back on. The floppy drive trapped my disc inside, and got worse when the metal part that protects the information part of the disk, got stuck inside jamming the drive. I had to take it back to a computer service place just to have the drive repaired and the disc extracted. That costed me a bundle! I had to replace the lithium battery and buy a new one because apparently the one I had was problematic when I called the tech support, and they refused to exchange or replace it. I hope you understand my flustered tone of voice when I explain all this to you, because I am mad! This isn't a business they're running, this is a rip off. Above all that, the hard drive died on me after a matter of months. It had a bad cluster which wouldnt leave even after I formatted it several times. All I have to show for my purchase is a big hole in my wallet and an ulcer. Amount Paid (US$): 2800 Operating System: Windows Processor: Intel Pentium III Processor speed: over 1000 Screen Size: 14 RAM: 128 Internal Storage: CD-RW and DVD Hard Drive (GB): 13-20
Fast, stable and light Jan 29 '01 (Updated Jan 29 '01) Author's Product Rating Product Rating: 5.0 Ease of Use: Quality of Tech Support: Pros Lightweight, feature packed, stable Cons high price, DVD playback not smooth The Bottom Line Having all the features of a full-size notebook but yet weighing in at under five pounds, the T20 is anyone's dream come true. ($$$ though!) Full Review I got the opportunity to use the IBM T20 when my company decided to standardize on the newer T20 and make the older Thinkpad 570 obsolete. My first impressions of this machine was that it felt light, yet also sturdy. Unlike the 570, the T20 includes almost everything you need: DVD, a full range of ports, decent sized screen and my personal favorite: Built in modem and ethernet ports. The built in ports allow you to leave the PC card slots empty. It also solves the problem of broken connectors or expensive PC cards with built-in ports. Opening the laptop, sound volume buttons replace the typical volume knob. Personally, I like this because the buttons are right in front of you and not hidden to a side. Also, the power button is on the inside of the powerbook. Personally, I prefer to have power buttons on the side because I like to be able to turn on the laptop with it being connected to a monitor and keyboard without opening it up but this is only a minor inconvenience that most people will not care about. The system FEELS zippy, and it doesn't crash too much (Windows 98 always crashes, so I'm not expecting IBM to fix Microsoft's problems). One problem that I did encounter was with DVD playback. Playback wasn't entirely smooth, and every once in a while it seemed to skip a few frames or so. I tried stopping background tasks and changing the power configuration but the skips still occurred. Not that big of a problem, but one that is annoying at times. A nice little feature that I like is the keyboard light that is located on the top of the flip-display. It can be activated with a keyboard short-cut and provides just enough light so that you can see the keyboard when you are typing in the dark. I love using it when I need to finish something up but don't want to disturb my roomate by turning on a light. A small touch, but nice nevertheless. Recommended Yes
A computer worth considering by professor101, Jan 19 '01 Pros: Large/bright screen, fast, keyboard light, DVD, hot swappable drives Cons: Short battery life, pricey, no trackpad If you have the money, this is a great little laptop. The large, bright screen is the first thing you notice. The keyboard is easy to use and has a nice "bounce" to it. When working on the plane or in dim situations a nice light shines down...
Think with the Thinkpad T20 by tycoon1999, Mar 14 '01 Pros: Fast, smart, reliable and mobile. Cons: The Price. This Lab-Top is one of the greatest in its class. The IBM Thinkpad T20 comes with the newest technology possible. Its fast and reliable with a 700MHZ Pentium 3 Processor and with 12 Gigabytes to play with you could fit plenty of "junk". You have...
